.\"
.\" "$Id: accept.8,v 1.4 2000/01/04 13:46:00 mike Exp $"
.\"
.\"   accept/reject man page for the Common UNIX Printing System (CUPS).
.\"
.\"   Copyright 1997-2000 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, and computer programs are the
.\"   property of Easy Software Products and are protected by Federal
.\"   copyright law.  Distribution and use rights are outlined in the file
.\"   "LICENSE.txt" which should have been included with this file.  If this
.\"   file is missing or damaged please contact Easy Software Products
.\"   at:
.\"
.\"       Attn: CUPS Licensing Information
.\"       Easy Software Products
.\"       44141 Airport View Drive, Suite 204
.\"       Hollywood, Maryland 20636-3111 USA
.\"
.\"       Voice: (301) 373-9603
.\"       EMail: cups-info@cups.org
.\"         WWW: http://www.cups.org
.\"
.TH accept 8 "Common UNIX Printing System" "22 September 1999" "Easy Software Products"
.SH NAME
accept/reject \- accept/reject jobs sent to a destination
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B accept
destination(s)
.br
.B reject
[ -h
.I server
] [ -r [
.I reason
] ]
destination(s)
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIaccept\fR instructs the printing system to accept print jobs to the
specified destinations.
.LP
\fIreject\fR instructs the printing system to reject print jobs to the
specified destinations. The \fI-r\fR option sets the reason for rejecting
print jobs. If not specified the reason defaults to "Reason Unknown".
.SH COMPATIBILITY
The CUPS versions of \fIaccept\fR and \fIreject\fR may ask the user for an
access password depending on the printing system configuration.  This differs
from the System V versions which require the root user to execute these
commands.
.SH SEE ALSO
cancel(1), disable(8), enable(8), lp(1), lpadmin(8), lpstat(1),
CUPS Software Administrators Manual
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1993-2000 by Easy Software Products, All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: accept.8,v 1.4 2000/01/04 13:46:00 mike Exp $".
.\"
