.\"
.\" "$Id$"
.\"
.\"   Backend man page for the Common UNIX Printing System (CUPS).
.\"
.\"   Copyright 1997-2005 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, and computer programs are the
.\"   property of Easy Software Products and are protected by Federal
.\"   copyright law.  Distribution and use rights are outlined in the file
.\"   "LICENSE.txt" which should have been included with this file.  If this
.\"   file is missing or damaged please contact Easy Software Products
.\"   at:
.\"
.\"       Attn: CUPS Licensing Information
.\"       Easy Software Products
.\"       44141 Airport View Drive, Suite 204
.\"       Hollywood, Maryland 20636 USA
.\"
.\"       Voice: (301) 373-9600
.\"       EMail: cups-info@cups.org
.\"         WWW: http://www.cups.org
.\"
.TH backend 1 "Common UNIX Printing System" "3 February 2006" "Easy Software Products"

.SH NAME
backend \- cups backend transmission interfaces

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B backend
.br
.B backend
job user title num-copies options [
.I filename
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The CUPS backend interface provides a standard method for sending
document files to different physical interfaces.

.LP
Backends must be capable of reading from a filename on the
command-line or from the standard input, copying the standard
input to a temporary file if required by the physical interface.

.LP
The command name (argv[0]) is set to the device URI of the
destination printer. Starting with CUPS 1.1.22, any
authentication information in argv[0] will be removed, so
backend developers are urged to use the DEVICE_URI environment
variable whenever authentication information is required.

.LP
Backchannel data from the device should be relayed to the job
filters by writing to file descriptor 3. The CUPS API includes
the \fIcupsBackchannelWrite\fR function for this purpose.

.SH DEVICE DISCOVERY
When run with no arguments, the backend should list the devices
and schemes it supports or is advertising to stdout. The output
consists of zero or more lines consisting of any of the following
forms:

.nf
device-class scheme "Unknown" "device-info"
device-class device-uri "device-make-and-model" "device-info"
device-class device-uri "device-make-and-model" "device-info" "device-id"
.fi

.LP
The \fIdevice-class\fR field is one of the following values:

.TP 5
direct
.br
The device-uri refers to a specific direct-access device with no
options, such as a parallel, USB, or SCSI device.

.TP 5
file
.br
The device-uri refers to a file on disk.

.TP 5
network
.br
The device-uri refers to a networked device and conforms to the
general form for network URIs.

.TP 5
serial
.br
The device-uri refers to a serial device with configurable baud
rate and other options. If the device-uri contains a baud value,
it represents the maximum baud rate supported by the device.

.LP
The \fIscheme\fR field provides the URI scheme that is supported
by the backend. Backends should use this form only when the
backend supports any URI using that scheme. The \fIdevice-uri\fR
field specifies the full URI to use when communicating with the
device.

.LP
The \fIdevice-make-and-model\fR field specifies the make and
model of the device, e.g. "Acme Foojet 2000". If the make and
model is not known, you must report "Unknown".

.LP
The \fIdevice-info\fR field specifies additional information
about the device. Typically this includes the make and model
along with the port number or network address, e.g. "Acme Foojet
2000 USB #1".

.LP
The optional \fIdevice-id\fR field specifies the IEEE-1284 device
ID string for the device, which is used to select a matching
driver.

.SH EXIT CODES
The following exit codes are defined for backends:

.TP 5
0 (CUPS_BACKEND_OK)
.br
The print file was successfully transmitted to the device or
remote server.

.TP 5
1 (CUPS_BACKEND_FAILED)
.br
The print file was not successfully transmitted to the device or
remote server. The scheduler will respond to this by canceling
the job, retrying the job, or stopping the queue depending on the
state of the error-policy attribute.

.TP 5
2 (CUPS_BACKEND_AUTH_REQUIRED)
.br
The print file was not successfully transmitted because valid
authentication information is required. The scheduler will
respond to this by holding the job and adding the
authentication-required job-reasons keyword.

.TP 5
3 (CUPS_BACKEND_HOLD)
.br
The print file was not successfully transmitted because it cannot
be printed at this time. The scheduler will respond to this by
holding the job.

.TP 5
4 (CUPS_BACKEND_STOP)
.br
The print file was not successfully transmitted because it cannot
be printed at this time. The scheduler will respond to this by
stopping the queue.

.TP 5
5 (CUPS_BACKEND_CANCEL)
.br
The print file was not successfully transmitted because one or
more attributes are not supported. The scheduler will respond to
this by canceling the job.

.PP
All other exit code values are reserved.

.SH LOG MESSAGES
Messages sent to stderr are generally logged to
printer-state-message attribute and the current ErrorLog. Each
line begins with a standard prefix:

.TP 5
ALERT: message
.br
Sets the printer-state-message attribute and adds the specified
message to the current ErrorLog using the "alert" log level.

.TP 5
ATTR: attribute=value [attribute=value]
.br
Sets the named job attribute(s). Typically this will be used to
set the job-remote-id attribute.

.TP 5
CRIT: message
.br
Sets the printer-state-message attribute and adds the specified
message to the current ErrorLog using the "critical" log level.

.TP 5
DEBUG: message
.br
Sets the printer-state-message attribute and adds the specified
message to the current ErrorLog using the "debug" log level.

.TP 5
DEBUG2: message
.br
Sets the printer-state-message attribute and adds the specified
message to the current ErrorLog using the "debug2" log level.

.TP 5
EMERG: message
.br
Sets the printer-state-message attribute and adds the specified
message to the current ErrorLog using the "emergency" log level.

.TP 5
ERROR: message
.br
Sets the printer-state-message attribute and adds the specified
message to the current ErrorLog using the "error" log level.

.TP 5
INFO: message
.br
Sets the printer-state-message attribute. If the current LogLevel
is set to "debug2", also adds the specified message to the
current ErrorLog using the "info" log level.

.TP 5
NOTICE: message
.br
Sets the printer-state-message attribute and adds the specified
message to the current ErrorLog using the "notice" log level.

.TP 5
PAGE: page-number #-copies
.TP 5
PAGE: #-pages total
.br
Adds an entry to the current PageLog. The first form adds
#-copies to the job-media-sheets-completed attribute. The second
form sets the job-media-sheets-completed attribute to #-pages.

.TP 5
STATE: printer-state-reason [printer-state-reason ...]
.TP 5
STATE: + printer-state-reason [printer-state-reason ...]
.TP 5
STATE: - printer-state-reason [printer-state-reason ...]
.br
Sets, adds, or removes printer-state-reason keywords to the
current queue. Typically this is used to indicate media, ink, and
toner conditions on a printer.

.TP 5
WARNING: message
.br
Sets the printer-state-message attribute and adds the specified
message to the current ErrorLog using the "warning" log level.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
The following environment variables are defined by the CUPS
server when executing the backend:

.TP 5
CHARSET
.br
The default text character set, typically utf-8.

.TP 5
CLASS
.br
When a job is submitted to a printer class, contains the name of
the destination printer class. Otherwise this environment
variable will not be set.

.TP 5
CONTENT_TYPE
.br
The MIME type associated with the file (e.g.
application/postscript).

.TP 5
CUPS_DATADIR
.br
The directory where data files can be found.

.TP 5
CUPS_SERVERROOT
.br
The root directory of the server.

.TP 5
DEVICE_URI
.br
The device-uri associated with the printer; this is provided for
shell scripts which may not be able to get the passed argv[0]
string and for backends that require any authentication
information which is not included in argv[0].

.TP 5
FINAL_CONTENT_TYPE
.br
The MIME type associated with the printer (e.g.
application/vnd.cups-postscript).

.TP 5
LANG
.br
The default language locale (typically C or en).

.TP 5
PATH
.br
The standard execution path for external programs that may be run by
the backend.

.TP 5
PPD
.br
The full pathname of the PostScript Printer Description (PPD)
file for this printer.

.TP 5
PRINTER
.br
The name of the printer.

.TP 5
RIP_CACHE
.br
The recommended amount of memory to use for Raster Image
Processors (RIPs).

.TP 5
SOFTWARE
.br
The name and version number of the server (typically CUPS/1.1).

.TP 5
TZ
.br
The timezone of the server.

.TP 5
USER
.br
The user executing the backend, typically root; consult the
cupsd.conf file for the current setting.

.SH SEE ALSO
cupsd(8), filter(1)
.br
http://localhost:631/help

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1993-2006 by Easy Software Products, All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id$".
.\"
