.\"
.\" "$Id: cups-lpd.man,v 1.5.2.2 2002/03/04 17:31:08 mike Exp $"
.\"
.\"   cups-lpd man page for the Common UNIX Printing System (CUPS).
.\"
.\"   Copyright 1997-2002 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, and computer programs are the
.\"   property of Easy Software Products and are protected by Federal
.\"   copyright law.  Distribution and use rights are outlined in the file
.\"   "LICENSE.txt" which should have been included with this file.  If this
.\"   file is missing or damaged please contact Easy Software Products
.\"   at:
.\"
.\"       Attn: CUPS Licensing Information
.\"       Easy Software Products
.\"       44141 Airport View Drive, Suite 204
.\"       Hollywood, Maryland 20636-3111 USA
.\"
.\"       Voice: (301) 373-9603
.\"       EMail: cups-info@cups.org
.\"         WWW: http://www.cups.org
.\"
.TH cups-lpd 8 "Common UNIX Printing System" "4 March 2002" "Easy Software Products"
.SH NAME
cups-lpd \- receive print jobs and report printer status to lpd clients
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cups-lpd
[ -o
.I option=value
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcups-lpd\fR is the CUPS Line Printer Daemon ("LPD") mini-server that
supports legacy client systems that use the LPD protocol.
\fBcups-lpd\fR does not act as a standalone network daemon but instead
operates using the Internet "super-server" \fBinetd(8)\fR. Add the
following line to the \fBinetd.conf\fR file to enable the
\fBcups-lpd\fR daemon:
.br
.nf

    printer stream tcp nowait lp /usr/lib/cups/daemon/cups-lpd cups-lpd
.fi
.LP
If you are using the newer \fIxinetd(8)\fR daemon, add the following
lines to the \fBxinetd.conf\fR file:
.br
.nf

    service printer
    {
        socket_type = stream
        protocol = tcp
        wait = no
        user = lp
        server = /usr/lib/cups/daemon/cups-lpd
    }
.fi
.SH OPTIONS
The \fI-o\fR option to \fBcups-lpd\fR inserts options for all print queues.
Most often this is used to disable the "l" filter so that remote print jobs
are filtered as needed for printing:
.br
.nf

    printer stream tcp nowait lp /usr/lib/cups/daemon/cups-lpd cups-lpd \
        -o document-format=application/octet-stream

    server = /usr/lib/cups/daemon/cups-lpd
    server_args = -o document-format=application/octet-stream
.fi
.LP
The example shown resets the document format to be
\fIapplication/octet-stream\fR, which forces auto-detection of the print
file type.
.SH COMPATIBILITY
\fBcups-lpd\fR does not enforce the restricted source port
number specified in RFC 1179, as using restricted ports does not
prevent determined users from submitting print jobs. While this
behavior is different than standard Berkeley LPD
implementations, it should not affect normal client operations.
.LP
The output of the status requests follows RFC 2569, Mapping
between LPD and IPP Protocols. Since many LPD implementations
stray from this definition, remote status reporting to LPD
clients may be unreliable.
.SH SEE ALSO
inetd(8), xinetd(8),
CUPS Software Administrators Manual,
http://localhost:631/documentation.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1993-2002 by Easy Software Products, All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: cups-lpd.man,v 1.5.2.2 2002/03/04 17:31:08 mike Exp $".
.\"
