.\"
.\" "$Id$"
.\"
.\"   cupsd.conf man page for the Common UNIX Printing System (CUPS).
.\"
.\"   Copyright 1997-2005 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, and computer programs are the
.\"   property of Easy Software Products and are protected by Federal
.\"   copyright law.  Distribution and use rights are outlined in the file
.\"   "LICENSE.txt" which should have been included with this file.  If this
.\"   file is missing or damaged please contact Easy Software Products
.\"   at:
.\"
.\"       Attn: CUPS Licensing Information
.\"       Easy Software Products
.\"       44141 Airport View Drive, Suite 204
.\"       Hollywood, Maryland 20636 USA
.\"
.\"       Voice: (301) 373-9600
.\"       EMail: cups-info@cups.org
.\"         WWW: http://www.cups.org
.\"
.TH cupsd.conf 5 "Common UNIX Printing System" "17 September 2005" "Easy Software Products"
.SH NAME
cupsd.conf \- server configuration file for cups
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIcupsd.conf\fR file configures the CUPS scheduler, \fIcupsd(8)\fR.  It
is normally located in the \fI/etc/cups\fR directory.
.LP
Each line in the file can be a configuration directive, a blank line,
or a comment. Comment lines start with the # character. The
configuration directives are intentionally similar to those used by the
popular Apache web server software and are described below.
.SH DIRECTIVES
The following directives are understood by \fIcupsd\fR. Consult the CUPS
Software Administrators Manual for a detailed description:
.TP 5
AccessLog
.br
Defines the access log filename.
.TP 5
Allow
.br
Allows access from the named hosts or addresses.
.TP 5
AuthClass
.br
Specifies the authentication class (User, Group, System)
.TP 5
AuthGroupName
.br
Specifies the authentication group.
.TP 5
AuthType
.br
Specifies the authentication type (None, Basic, Digest)
.TP 5
AutoPurgeJobs
.br
Specifies whether to purge job history data automatically when
it is no longer required for quotas.
.TP 5
BrowseAddress
.br
Specifies a broadcast address for outgoing printer information packets.
.TP 5
BrowseAllow
.br
Allows incoming printer information packets from the named host or address.
.TP 5
BrowseDeny
.br
Denies incoming printer information packets from the named host or address.
.TP 5
BrowseInterval
.br
Specifies the maximum interval between printer information broadcasts.
.TP 5
BrowseOrder
.br
Specifies the order of printer information access control (allow,deny or deny,allow)
.TP 5
BrowsePoll
.br
Specifies a server to poll for printer information.
.TP 5
BrowsePort
.br
Specifies the port to listen to for printer information packets.
.TP 5
BrowseProtocols
.br
Specifies the protocols to use for printer browsing.
.TP 5
BrowseLocalProtocols
.br
Specifies the protocols to use for local printer browsing.
.TP 5
BrowseRemoteProtocols
.br
Specifies the protocols to use for remote printer browsing.
.TP 5
BrowseRelay
.br
Specifies that printer information packets should be relayed from one host or
network to another.
.TP 5
BrowseShortNames
.br
Specifies whether remote printers will use short names ("printer") or not
("printer@server"). This option is ignored if more than one remote printer
exists with the same name.
.TP 5
BrowseTimeout
.br
Specifies the maximum interval between printer information updates before
remote printers will be removed from the list of available printers.
.TP 5
Browsing
.br
Specifies whether or not remote printer browsing should be enabled.
.TP 5
Classification
.br
Specifies the security classification of the server.
.TP 5
ClassifyOverride
.br
Specifies whether to allow users to override the classification
of individual print jobs.
.TP 5
ConfigFilePerm
.br
Specifies the permissions for all configuration files that the scheduler
writes.
.TP 5
DataDir
.br
Specified the directory where data files can be found.
.TP 5
DefaultAuthType
.br
Specifies the default type of authentication to use.
.TP 5
DefaultCharset
.br
Specifies the default character set to use for text.
.TP 5
DefaultLanguage
.br
Specifies the default language to use for text and web content.
.TP 5
DefaultPolicy
.br
Specifies the default access policy to use.
.TP 5
Deny
.br
Denies access to the named host or address.
.TP 5
DocumentRoot
.br
Specifies the root directory for the internal web server documents.
.TP 5
Encryption
.br
Specifies the level of encryption that is required for a particular
location.
.TP 5
ErrorLog
.br
Specifies the error log filename.
.TP 5
FaxRetryInterval
.br
Specifies the interval between retries of fax jobs in seconds.
.TP 5
FaxRetryLimit
.br
Specifies the number of retries that are done for fax jobs.
.TP 5
FileDevice
.br
Specifies whether the file pseudo-device can be used for new
printer queues.
.TP 5
FilterLimit
.br
Specifies the maximum cost of filters that are run concurrently.
.TP 5
FilterNice
.br
Specifies the scheduling priority ("nice" value) of filters that
are run to print a job.
.TP 5
FontPath
.br
Specifies the search path for fonts.
.TP 5
Group
.br
Specifies the group name or ID that will be used when executing
external programs.
.TP 5
HideImplicitMembers
.br
Specifies whether to hide members of implicit classes.
.TP 5
HostNameLookups
.br
Specifies whether or not to do reverse lookups on client addresses.
.TP 5
ImplicitAnyClasses
.br
Specifies whether or not to create implicit classes for local and
remote printers, e.g. "AnyPrinter" from "Printer", "Printer@server1",
and "Printer@server2".
.TP 5
ImplicitClasses
.br
Specifies whether or not to create implicit classes from identical
remote printers.
.TP 5
Include
.br
Includes the named file.
.TP 5
KeepAlive
.br
Specifies whether or not to support HTTP Keep-Alive.
.TP 5
KeepAliveTimeout
.br
Specifies the connection timeout for HTTP Keep-Alive.
.TP 5
<Limit operations> ... </Limit>
.br
Specifies the IPP operations that are being limited inside a policy.
.TP 5
<Limit methods> ... </Limit>
.TP 5
<LimitExcept methods> ... </LimitExcept>
.br
Specifies the HTTP methods that are being limited inside a location.
.TP 5
LimitRequestBody
.br
Specifies the maximum size of any print job request.
.TP 5
Listen
.br
Listens to the specified address and port.
.TP 5
<Location /path> ... </Location>
.br
Specifies access control for the named location.
.TP 5
LogFilePerm
.br
Specifies the permissions for all log files that the scheduler writes.
.TP 5
LogLevel
.br
Specifies the logging level (none, warn, error, info, debug, or debug2)
.TP 5
MaxClients
.br
Specifies the maximum number of simultaneous clients to support.
.TP 5
MaxClientsPerHost
.br
Specifies the maximum number of simultaneous clients to support from a
single address.
.TP 5
MaxCopies
.br
Specifies the maximum number of copies that a user can print of each job.
.TP 5
MaxJobs
.br
Specifies the maximum number of simultaneous jobs to support.
.TP 5
MaxJobsPerPrinter
.br
Specifies the maximum number of simultaneous jobs per printer to support.
.TP 5
MaxJobsPerUser
.br
Specifies the maximum number of simultaneous jobs per user to support.
.TP 5
MaxLogSize
.br
Specifies the maximum size of the log files before they are
rotated (0 to disable rotation)
.TP 5
MaxRequestSize
.br
Specifies the maximum request/file size in bytes (0 for no limit)
.TP 5
Order
.br
Specifies the order of HTTP access control (allow,deny or deny,allow)
.TP 5
PageLog
.br
Specifies the page log filename.
.TP 5
<Policy name> ... </Policy>
.br
Specifies access control for the named policy.
.TP 5
Port
.br
Specifies a port number to listen to for HTTP requests.
.TP 5
PreserveJobFiles
.br
Specifies whether or not to preserve job files after they are printed.
.TP 5
PreserveJobHistory
.br
Specifies whether or not to preserve the job history after they are
printed.
.TP 5
Printcap
.br
Specifies the filename for a printcap file that is updated automatically
with a list of available printers (needed for legacy applications)
.TP 5
PrintcapFormat
.br
Specifies the format of the printcap file.
.TP 5
PrintcapGUI
.br
Specifies whether to generate option panel definition files on some
operating systems.
.TP 5
ReloadTimeout
.br
Specifies the amount of time to wait for job completion before
restarting the scheduler.
.TP 5
RemoteRoot
.br
Specifies the username that is associated with unauthenticated root
accesses.
.TP 5
RequestRoot
.br
Specifies the directory to store print jobs and other HTTP request
data.
.TP 5
Require
.br
Specifies that user or group authentication is required.
.TP 5
RIPCache
.br
Specifies the maximum amount of memory to use when converting images
and PostScript files to bitmaps for a printer.
.TP 5
RunAsUser
.br
Specifies that the scheduler should run as the unpriviledged user
set with the User directive.
.TP 5
Satisfy
.br
Specifies whether all or any limits set for a Location must be
satisfied to allow access.
.TP 5
ServerAdmin
.br
Specifies the email address of the server administrator.
.TP 5
ServerBin
.br
Specifies the directory where backends, CGIs, daemons, and filters may
be found.
.TP 5
ServerCertificate
.br
Specifies the encryption certificate to use.
.TP 5
ServerKey
.br
Specifies the encryption key to use.
.TP 5
ServerName
.br
Specifies the fully-qualified hostname of the server.
.TP 5
ServerRoot
.br
Specifies the directory where the server configuration files can be found.
.TP 5
ServerTokens
.br
Specifies what information is included in the Server header of HTTP
responses.
.TP 5
SSLListen
.br
Listens on the specified address and port for encrypted connections.
.TP 5
SSLPort
.br
Listens on the specified port for encrypted connections.
.TP 5
SystemGroup
.br
Specifies the group to use for System class authentication.
.TP 5
TempDir
.br
Specifies the directory where temporary files are stored.
.TP 5
Timeout
.br
Specifies the HTTP request timeout in seconds.
.TP 5
User
.br
Specifies the user name or ID that is used when running external programs.
.SH SEE ALSO
classes.conf(5), cupsd(8), mime.convs(5), mime.types(5), printers.conf(5),
CUPS Software Administrators Manual,
http://localhost:631/documentation.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1993-2005 by Easy Software Products, All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id$".
.\"
