.\"
.\" "$Id: cupsaddsmb.man,v 1.2.2.7 2004/08/19 21:02:55 mike Exp $"
.\"
.\"   cupsaddsmb man page for the Common UNIX Printing System (CUPS).
.\"
.\"   Copyright 1997-2004 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, and computer programs are the
.\"   property of Easy Software Products and are protected by Federal
.\"   copyright law.  Distribution and use rights are outlined in the file
.\"   "LICENSE.txt" which should have been included with this file.  If this
.\"   file is missing or damaged please contact Easy Software Products
.\"   at:
.\"
.\"       Attn: CUPS Licensing Information
.\"       Easy Software Products
.\"       44141 Airport View Drive, Suite 204
.\"       Hollywood, Maryland 20636 USA
.\"
.\"       Voice: (301) 373-9600
.\"       EMail: cups-info@cups.org
.\"         WWW: http://www.cups.org
.\"
.TH cupsaddsmb 8 "Common UNIX Printing System" "19 August 2004" "Easy Software Products"
.SH NAME
cupsaddsmb \- export printers to samba for windows clients
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cupsaddsmb
[ -H
.I samba-server
] [ -U
.I samba-user
] [ -h
.I cups-server
] [ -v ] -a
.br
.B cupsaddsmb
[ -H
.I samba-server
] [ -U
.I samba-user
] [ -h
.I cups-server
] [ -v ] printer [ ... printer ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIcupsaddsmb\fR exports printers to the SAMBA software (version
2.2.0 or higher) for use with Windows clients. Depending on the
SAMBA configuration, you may need to provide a password to
export the printers. This program requires the Windows printer
driver files described below.
.LP
The \fI-H\fR option specifies the SAMBA server which defaults
to the CUPS server.
.LP
The \fI-U\fR option specifies the SAMBA print admin username which defaults
to your current username.
.LP
The \fI-a\fR option exports all known printers. Otherwise only
the named printers are exported.
.LP
The \fI-h\fR option specifies a different CUPS server to use.
.LP
The \fI-v\fR option specifies that verbose information should be
shown and is useful for debugging SAMBA configuration problems.
.SH SAMBA CONFIGURATION
\fIcupsaddsmb\fR uses the new RPC-based printing support in
SAMBA 2.2.x to provide printer drivers and PPD files to Windows
client machines. In order to use this functionality, you must
first configure SAMBA (via the smb.conf file) to support
printing through CUPS and provide a printer driver download
share, as follows:
.nf

    [global]
	load printers = yes
	printing = cups
	printcap name = cups

    [printers]
	comment = All Printers
	path = /var/spool/samba
	browseable = no
	public = yes
	guest ok = yes
	writable = no
	printable = yes
	printer admin = root

    [print$]
	comment = Printer Drivers
	path = /etc/samba/drivers
	browseable = yes
	guest ok = no
	read only = yes
	write list = root
.fi
.LP
This configuration assumes a FHS-compliant installation of
SAMBA; adjust the [printers] and [print$] share paths
accordingly on your system as needed.

.SH MICROSOFT POSTSCRIPT DRIVERS FOR WINDOWS
The base driver for Windows 2000 and higher is the Microsoft
PostScript driver, which is available on any system running
Windows 2000 or higher in the
%WINDOWS%\\SYSTEM32\\SPOOL\\DRIVERS\\W32X86\\3 folder.
.LP
The CUPS printer driver is preferred over the Microsoft driver
since it supports the page-label, job-billing, and
job-hold-until options fully on all printers. However, currently
only Windows 2000 and higher is supported by the Microsoft
driver, so you will also need to get the Adobe driver to support
Windows 95, 98, and Me clients. The Adobe and Microsoft drivers
for Windows 2000 are identical.
.LP
Once you have extracted the driver files, create a "drivers"
directory in the CUPS data directory (usually /usr/share/cups)
and copy the files exactly as named below:
.nf

    [Windows 2000 and higher]
    ps5ui.dll
    pscript.hlp
    pscript.ntf
    pscript5.dll
.fi

.SH CUPS POSTSCRIPT DRIVERS FOR WINDOWS
\fIcupsaddsmb\fR can use the CUPS v6 PostScript printer driver
for Windows, which is available for download from the CUPS web
site.
.LP
The CUPS printer driver is preferred over the Adobe and
Microsoft drivers since it supports the page-label, job-billing,
and job-hold-until options fully on all printers. However,
currently only Windows 2000 and higher is supported by the CUPS
driver, so you will also need to get the Adobe driver to support
Windows 95, 98, and Me clients.
.LP
Once you have extracted the driver files, create a "drivers"
directory in the CUPS data directory (usually /usr/share/cups)
and copy the files exactly as named below:
.nf

    [Windows 2000 and higher]
    cupsui6.dll
    cupsdrv6.dll
    ps5ui.dll
    pscript.hlp
    pscript.ntf
    pscript5.dll
.fi

.SH ADOBE POSTSCRIPT DRIVERS FOR WINDOWS
\fIcupsaddsmb\fR can use the Adobe PostScript printer driver for
Windows, which are available for download from the Adobe web
site (http://www.adobe.com).
.LP
The CUPS printer driver is preferred over the Adobe drivers
since they support the page-label, job-billing, and
job-hold-until options fully on all printers. You can use the
Adobe drivers for Windows 9x and the CUPS drivers for Windows
2000 and higher. The Adobe and Microsoft drivers for Windows 2000
are identical.
.LP
Once you have extracted the driver files, create a "drivers"
directory in the CUPS data directory (usually /usr/share/cups)
and copy the files exactly as named below:
.nf

    [Windows 95, 98, and Me]
    ADFONTS.MFM
    ADOBEPS4.DRV
    ADOBEPS4.HLP
    ICONLIB.DLL
    PSMON.DLL
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
CUPS Software Administrators Manual,
http://localhost:631/documentation.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1993-2004 by Easy Software Products, All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: cupsaddsmb.man,v 1.2.2.7 2004/08/19 21:02:55 mike Exp $".
.\"
