.\"
.\" "$Id$"
.\"
.\"   ipptest man page for CUPS.
.\"
.\"   Copyright 2010 by Apple Inc.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, and computer programs are the
.\"   property of Apple Inc. and are protected by Federal copyright
.\"   law.  Distribution and use rights are outlined in the file "LICENSE.txt"
.\"   which should have been included with this file.  If this file is
.\"   file is missing or damaged, see the license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH ipptest 1 "CUPS" "15 February 2010" "Apple Inc."
.SH NAME
ipptest - perform internet printing protocol tests
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ipptest
[ -E ] [ -V
.I version
] [ -X ] [ -c ] [ -d
.I name=value
] [ -f
.I filename
] [ -i
.I seconds
] [ -l ] [ -v ] 
.I URI
.I filename.test
[
.I ... filenameN.test
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIipptest\fR sends IPP requests to the specified URI and tests the results.
Each test file contains one or more test requests, including the expected
response status, attributes, and values.  Output is either a plain text or XML
report on the standard output, with a non-zero exit status indicating that one
or more tests have failed. The test file format is described in
\fIipp.test(5)\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options are recognized by \fIipptest\fR:
.TP 5
-E
Forces encryption when connecting to the server.
.TP 5
-V version
Specifies the default IPP version to use: 1.0, 1.1, 2.0, 2.1, or 2.2. If not
specified, version 1.1 is used.
.TP 5
-X
Specifies that XML (Apple plist) output is desired instead of the plain text
report. This option is incompatible with the \fI-i\fR (interval) option.
.TP 5
-c
Specifies that requests should be sent using the HTTP/1.1 "Transfer-Encoding:
chunked" header, which is required for conformance by all versions of IPP. The
default is to use "Transfer-Encoding: chunked" for requests with attached files
and "Content-Length:" for requests without attached files.
.TP 5
-d name=value
Defines the named variable.
.TP 5
-f filename
Defines the default request filename for tests.
.TP 5
-i seconds
Specifies that the (last) test should be repeated at the specified interval.
This option is incompatible with the \fI-X\fR (XML output) option.
.TP 5
-l
Specifies that requests should be sent using the HTTP/1.0 "Content-Length:"
header, which is required for conformance by all versions of IPP. The
default is to use "Transfer-Encoding: chunked" for requests with attached files
and "Content-Length:" for requests without attached files.
.TP 5
-v
Specifies that all request and response attributes should be output. This is the
default for XML output.
.SH COMPATIBILITY
The \fIipptest\fR program is unique to CUPS.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIipp.test(5)\fR,
.br
http://localhost:631/help
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2007-2010 by Apple Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id$".
.\"
