.\"
.\" "$Id$"
.\"
.\"   ipptoolfile man page for CUPS.
.\"
.\"   Copyright 2010-2013 by Apple Inc.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, and computer programs are the
.\"   property of Apple Inc. and are protected by Federal copyright
.\"   law.  Distribution and use rights are outlined in the file "LICENSE.txt"
.\"   which should have been included with this file.  If this file is
.\"   file is missing or damaged, see the license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH ipptoolfile 5 "CUPS" "10 January 2013" "Apple Inc."
.SH NAME
ipptoolfile \- ipptool file format

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIipptool(1)\fR program accepts free-form plain text files that describe one or more IPP requests. Comments start with the "#" character and continue to the end of the line. Each request is enclosed by curly braces, for example:
.nf

    # This is a comment
    {
      # The name of the test
      NAME "Print PostScript Job"

      # The request to send
      OPERATION Print-Job
      GROUP operation-attributes-tag
      ATTR charset attributes-charset utf-8
      ATTR language attributes-natural-language en
      ATTR uri printer-uri $uri
      ATTR name requesting-user-name $user
      FILE testfile.ps

      # The response to expect
      STATUS successful-ok
      EXPECT attributes-charset OF-TYPE charset
      EXPECT attributes-natural-language OF-TYPE naturalLanguage
      EXPECT job-id OF-TYPE integer
      EXPECT job-uri OF-TYPE uri
    }
    {
      # The name of the test
      NAME "Get Attributes of PostScript Job"

      # The request to send
      OPERATION Get-Job-Attributes
      GROUP operation-attributes-tag
      ATTR charset attributes-charset utf-8
      ATTR language attributes-natural-language en
      ATTR uri printer-uri $uri
      ATTR integer job-id $job-id
      ATTR name requesting-user-name $user

      # The response to expect
      STATUS successful-ok
      EXPECT attributes-charset OF-TYPE charset
      EXPECT attributes-natural-language OF-TYPE naturalLanguage
      EXPECT job-id OF-TYPE integer
      EXPECT job-uri OF-TYPE uri
      EXPECT job-state OF-TYPE enum
      EXPECT job-originating-user-name OF-TYPE name WITH-VALUE "$user"
    }
.fi

.SH TOP-LEVEL DIRECTIVES
The following directives can be used outside of a test:
.TP 5
{ test }
Defines a test.
.TP 5
DEFINE variable-name value
Defines the named variable to the given value. This is equivalent to specifying
"-d variable-name=value" on the \fIipptool\fR command-line.
.TP 5
DEFINE-DEFAULT variable-name value
Defines the named variable to the given value if it does not already have a
value.
.TP 5
IGNORE-ERRORS yes
.TP 5
IGNORE-ERRORS no
Specifies whether, by default, \fIipptool\fR will ignore errors and continue with
subsequent tests.
.TP 5
INCLUDE "filename"
.TP 5
INCLUDE <filename>
Includes another test file. The first form includes a file relative to the
current test file, while the second form includes a file from the \fIipptool\fR
include directory.
.TP 5
INCLUDE-IF-DEFINED name "filename"
.TP 5
INCLUDE-IF-DEFINED name <filename>
Includes another test file if the named variable is defined. The first form
includes a file relative to the current test file, while the second form
includes a file from the \fIipptool\fR include directory.
.TP 5
INCLUDE-IF-NOT-DEFINED name "filename"
.TP 5
INCLUDE-IF-NOT-DEFINED name <filename>
Includes another test file if the named variable is not defined. The first form
includes a file relative to the current test file, while the second form
includes a file from the \fIipptool\fR include directory.
.TP 5
SKIP-IF-DEFINED variable-name
.TP 5
SKIP-IF-NOT-DEFINED variable-name
Specifies that the remainder of the test file should be skipped when the
variable is or is not defined.
.TP 5
TRANSFER auto
Specifies that tests will, by default, use "Transfer-Encoding: chunked" for
requests with attached files and "Content-Length:" for requests without attached
files.
.TP 5
TRANSFER chunked
Specifies that tests will, by default, use the HTTP/1.1 "Transfer-Encoding:
chunked" header. This is the default and is equivalent to specifying "-c" on the
\fIipptool\fR command-line. Support for chunked requests is required for
conformance with all versions of IPP.
.TP 5
TRANSFER length
Specifies that tests will, by default, use the HTTP/1.0 "Content-Length:"
header. This is equivalent to specifying "-l" on the \fIipptool\fR command-line.
Support for content length requests is required for conformance with all
versions of IPP.
.TP 5
VERSION 1.0
.TP 5
VERSION 1.1
.TP 5
VERSION 2.0
.TP 5
VERSION 2.1
.TP 5
VERSION 2.2
Specifies the default IPP version number to use for the tests that follow.

.SH TEST DIRECTIVES
The following directives are understood in a test:
.TP 5
ATTR tag attribute-name value(s)
Adds an attribute to the test request. Values are separated by the comma (",")
character - escape commas using the "\" character.
.TP 5
ATTR collection attribute-name { MEMBER tag member-name value(s) ... } [ ... { ... } ]
Adds a collection attribute to the test request. Member attributes follow the
same syntax as regular attributes and can themselves be nested collections.
Multiple collection values can be supplied as needed.
.TP 5
DELAY seconds
Specifies a delay before this test will be run.
.TP 5
DISPLAY attribute-name
Specifies that value of the named attribute should be output as part of the
test report.
.TP 5
EXPECT attribute-name [ predicate(s) ]
.TP 5
EXPECT ?attribute-name predicate(s)
.TP 5
EXPECT !attribute-name
Specifies that the response must/may/must not include the named attribute.
Additional requirements can be added as predicates - see the "EXPECT PREDICATES"
section for more information on predicates.
.TP 5
FILE filename
Specifies a file to include at the end of the request. This is typically used
when sending a test print file.
.TP 5
GROUP tag
Specifies the group tag for subsequent attributes in the request.
.TP 5
IGNORE-ERRORS yes
.TP 5
IGNORE-ERRORS no
Specifies whether \fIipptool\fR will ignore errors and continue with subsequent
tests.
.TP 5
NAME "literal string"
Specifies the human-readable name of the test.
.TP 5
OPERATION operation-code
Specifies the operation to be performed.
.TP 5
REQUEST-ID number
.TP 5
REQUEST-ID random
Specifies the request-id value to use in the request, either an integer or the
word "random" to use a randomly generated value (the default).
.TP 5
RESOURCE path
Specifies an alternate resource path that is used for the HTTP POST request.
The default is the resource from the URI provided to the \fIipptool\fR program.
.TP 5
SKIP-IF-DEFINED variable-name
.TP 5
SKIP-IF-NOT-DEFINED variable-name
Specifies that the current test should be skipped when the variable is or is not
defined.
.TP 5
SKIP-PREVIOUS-ERROR yes
.TP 5
SKIP-PREVIOUS-ERROR no
Specifies whether \fIipptool\fR will skip the current test if the previous test
resulted in an error/failure.
.TP 5
STATUS status-code [ predicate ]
Specifies an expected response status-code value. Additional requirements can be
added as predicates - see the "STATUS PREDICATES" section for more information
on predicates.
.TP 5
TRANSFER auto
Specifies that this test will use "Transfer-Encoding: chunked" if it has an
attached file or "Content-Length:" otherwise.
.TP 5
TRANSFER chunked
Specifies that this test will use the HTTP/1.1 "Transfer-Encoding: chunked"
header.
.TP 5
TRANSFER length
Specifies that this test will use the HTTP/1.0 "Content-Length:" header.
.TP 5
VERSION 1.0
.TP 5
VERSION 1.1
.TP 5
VERSION 2.0
.TP 5
VERSION 2.1
.TP 5
VERSION 2.2
Specifies the IPP version number to use for this test.

.SH EXPECT PREDICATES
The following predicates are understood following the EXPECT test directive:
.TP 5
COUNT number
Requires the EXPECT attribute to have the specified number of values.
.TP 5
DEFINE-MATCH variable-name
Defines the variable to "1" when the EXPECT condition matches. A side-effect of
this predicate is that this EXPECT will never fail a test.
.TP 5
DEFINE-NO-MATCH variable-name
Defines the variable to "1" when the EXPECT condition does not match. A side-
effect of this predicate is that this EXPECT will never fail a test.
.TP 5
DEFINE-VALUE variable-name
Defines the variable to the value of the attribute when the EXPECT condition
matches. A side-effect of this predicate is that this EXPECT will never fail a test.
.TP 5
IF-DEFINED variable-name
Makes the EXPECT conditions apply only if the specified variable is defined.
.TP 5
IF-NOT-DEFINED variable-name
Makes the EXPECT conditions apply only if the specified variable is not
defined.
.TP 5
IN-GROUP tag
Requires the EXPECT attribute to be in the specified group tag.
.TP 5
OF-TYPE tag[,tag,...]
Requires the EXPECT attribute to use the specified value tag(s).
.TP 5
REPEAT-LIMIT number
.br
Specifies the maximum number of times to repeat. The default value is 1000.
.TP 5
REPEAT-MATCH
.TP 5
REPEAT-NO-MATCH
Specifies that the current test should be repeated when the EXPECT condition
matches or does not match.
.TP 5
SAME-COUNT-AS attribute-name
Requires the EXPECT attribute to have the same number of values as the specified
parallel attribute.
.TP 5
WITH-ALL-VALUES "literal string"
Requires that all values of the EXPECT attribute match the literal string. Comparisons are case-sensitive.
.TP 5
WITH-ALL-VALUES <number
.TP 5
WITH-ALL-VALUES =number
.TP 5
WITH-ALL-VALUES >number
.TP 5
WITH-ALL-VALUES number[,number,...]
Requires that all values of the EXPECT attribute match the number(s) or numeric comparison. When comparing rangeOfInteger values, the "<" and ">" operators only check the upper bound of the range.
.TP 5
WITH-ALL-VALUES "false"
.TP 5
WITH-ALL-VALUES "true"
Requires that all values of the EXPECT attribute match the boolean value given.
.TP 5
WITH-ALL-VALUES "/regular expression/"
Requires that all values of the EXPECT attribute match the regular expression, which must conform to the POSIX regular expression syntax. Comparisons are case-sensitive.
.TP 5
WITH-VALUE "literal string"
Requires that at least one value of the EXPECT attribute matches the literal string. Comparisons are case-sensitive.
.TP 5
WITH-VALUE <number
.TP 5
WITH-VALUE =number
.TP 5
WITH-VALUE >number
.TP 5
WITH-VALUE number[,number,...]
Requires that at least one value of the EXPECT attribute matches the number(s) or numeric comparison. When comparing rangeOfInteger values, the "<" and ">" operators only check the upper bound of the range.
.TP 5
WITH-VALUE "false"
.TP 5
WITH-VALUE "true"
Requires that at least one value of the EXPECT attribute matches the boolean value given.
.TP 5
WITH-VALUE "/regular expression/"
Requires that at least one value of the EXPECT attribute matches the regular expression, which must conform to the POSIX regular expression syntax. Comparisons are case-sensitive.

.SH STATUS PREDICATES
The following predicates are understood following the STATUS test directive:
.TP 5
DEFINE-MATCH variable-name
Defines the variable to "1" when the STATUS matches. A side-effect of this predicate is that this STATUS will never fail a test.
.TP 5
DEFINE-NO-MATCH variable-name
Defines the variable to "1" when the STATUS does not match. A side-effect of this predicate is that this STATUS will never fail a test.
.TP 5
IF-DEFINED variable-name
Makes the STATUS apply only if the specified variable is defined.
.TP 5
IF-NOT-DEFINED variable-name
Makes the STATUS apply only if the specified variable is not defined.
.TP 5
REPEAT-LIMIT number
.br
Specifies the maximum number of times to repeat. The default value is 1000.
.TP 5
REPEAT-MATCH
.TP 5
REPEAT-NO-MATCH
Specifies that the current test should be repeated when the response status-code
matches or does not match the value specified by the STATUS directive.

.SH OPERATION CODES
Operation codes correspond to the hexadecimal numbers (0xHHHH) and names from
RFC 2911 and other IPP extension specifications. Here is a complete list:
.nf
    Activate-Printer
    CUPS-Accept-Jobs
    CUPS-Add-Modify-Class
    CUPS-Add-Modify-Printer
    CUPS-Authenticate-Job
    CUPS-Delete-Class
    CUPS-Delete-Printer
    CUPS-Get-Classes
    CUPS-Get-Default
    CUPS-Get-Devices
    CUPS-Get-Document
    CUPS-Get-PPD
    CUPS-Get-PPDs
    CUPS-Get-Printers
    CUPS-Move-Job
    CUPS-Reject-Jobs
    CUPS-Set-Default
    Cancel-Current-Job
    Cancel-Job
    Cancel-Jobs
    Cancel-My-Jobs
    Cancel-Subscription
    Close-Job
    Create-Job
    Create-Job-Subscription
    Create-Printer-Subscription
    Deactivate-Printer
    Disable-Printer
    Enable-Printer
    Get-Job-Attributes
    Get-Jobs
    Get-Notifications
    Get-Printer-Attributes
    Get-Printer-Support-Files
    Get-Printer-Supported-Values
    Get-Subscription-Attributes
    Get-Subscriptions
    Hold-Job
    Hold-New-Jobs
    Identify-Printer
    Pause-Printer
    Pause-Printer-After-Current-Job
    Print-Job
    Print-URI
    Promote-Job
    Purge-Jobs
    Release-Held-New-Jobs
    Release-Job
    Renew-Subscription
    Reprocess-Job
    Restart-Job
    Restart-Printer
    Resubmit-Job
    Resume-Job
    Resume-Printer
    Schedule-Job-After
    Send-Document
    Send-Notifications
    Send-URI
    Set-Job-Attributes
    Set-Printer-Attributes
    Shutdown-Printer
    Startup-Printer
    Suspend-Current-Job
    Validate-Document
    Validate-Job
.fi

.SH STATUS CODES
Status codes correspond to the hexadecimal numbers (0xHHHH) and names from RFC
2911 and other IPP extension specifications. Here is a complete list:
.nf
    client-error-attributes-not-settable
    client-error-attributes-or-values-not-supported
    client-error-bad-request
    client-error-charset-not-supported
    client-error-compression-error
    client-error-compression-not-supported
    client-error-conflicting-attributes
    client-error-document-access-error
    client-error-document-format-error
    client-error-document-format-not-supported
    client-error-document-password-error
    client-error-document-permission-error
    client-error-document-security-error
    client-error-document-unprintable-error
    client-error-forbidden
    client-error-gone
    client-error-ignored-all-notifications
    client-error-ignored-all-subscriptions
    client-error-not-authenticated
    client-error-not-authorized
    client-error-not-found
    client-error-not-possible
    client-error-print-support-file-not-found
    client-error-request-entity-too-large
    client-error-request-value-too-long
    client-error-timeout
    client-error-too-many-subscriptions
    client-error-uri-scheme-not-supported
    cups-see-other
    redirection-other-site
    server-error-busy
    server-error-device-error
    server-error-internal-error
    server-error-job-canceled
    server-error-multiple-document-jobs-not-supported
    server-error-not-accepting-jobs
    server-error-operation-not-supported
    server-error-printer-is-deactivated
    server-error-service-unavailable
    server-error-temporary-error
    server-error-version-not-supported
    successful-ok
    successful-ok-but-cancel-subscription
    successful-ok-conflicting-attributes
    successful-ok-events-complete
    successful-ok-ignored-notifications
    successful-ok-ignored-or-substituted-attributes
    successful-ok-ignored-subscriptions
    successful-ok-too-many-events
.fi

.SH TAGS
Value and group tags correspond to the names from RFC 2911 and other IPP
extension specifications. Here are the group tags:
.nf
    event-notification-attributes-tag
    job-attributes-tag
    operation-attributes-tag
    printer-attributes-tag
    subscription-attributes-tag
    unsupported-attributes-tag
.fi
.LP
Here are the value tags:
.nf
    admin-define
    boolean
    charset
    collection
    dateTime
    default
    delete-attribute
    enum
    integer
    keyword
    mimeMediaType
    nameWithLanguage
    nameWithoutLanguage
    naturalLanguage
    no-value
    not-settable
    octetString
    rangeOfInteger
    resolution
    textWithLanguage
    textWithoutLanguage
    unknown
    unsupported
    uri
    uriScheme
.fi

.SH VARIABLES
The \fIipptool\fR program maintains a list of variables that can be used in any
literal string or attribute value by specifying "$variable-name". Aside from
variables defined using the "-d" option or "DEFINE" directive, the following
pre-defined variables are available:
.TP 5
$$
Inserts a single "$" character.
.TP 5
$ENV[name]
Inserts the value of the named environment variable, or an empty string if the
environment variable is not defined.
.TP 5
$filename
Inserts the filename provided to \fIipptool\fR with the "-f" option.
.TP 5
$hostname
Inserts the hostname from the URI provided to \fIipptool\fR.
.TP 5
$job-id
Inserts the last job-id value returned in a test response or 0 if no job-id has
been seen.
.TP 5
$job-uri
Inserts the last job-uri value returned in a test response or an empty string if
no job-uri has been seen.
.TP 5
$scheme
Inserts the scheme from the URI provided to \fIipptool\fR.
.TP 5
$notify-subscription-id
Inserts the last notify-subscription-id value returned in a test response or 0 if
no notify-subscription-id has been seen.
.TP 5
$port
Inserts the port number from the URI provided to \fIipptool\fR.
.TP 5
$resource
Inserts the resource path from the URI provided to \fIipptool\fR.
.TP 5
$uri
Inserts the URI provided to \fIipptool\fR.
.TP 5
$user
Inserts the current user's login name.
.TP 5
$username
Inserts the username from the URI provided to \fIipptool\fR, if any.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fIipptool(1)\fR,
.br
http://localhost:631/help

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2007-2013 by Apple Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id$".
.\"
