.\"
.\" "$Id: lpadmin.man 7600 2008-05-20 21:06:23Z mike $"
.\"
.\"   lpadmin man page for CUPS.
.\"
.\"   Copyright 2007-2013 by Apple Inc.
.\"   Copyright 1997-2006 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, and computer programs are the
.\"   property of Apple Inc. and are protected by Federal copyright
.\"   law.  Distribution and use rights are outlined in the file "LICENSE.txt"
.\"   which should have been included with this file.  If this file is
.\"   file is missing or damaged, see the license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH lpadmin 8 "CUPS" "16 July 2012" "Apple Inc."
.SH NAME
lpadmin \- configure cups printers and classes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lpadmin
[ -E ] [-U
.I username
] [ -h
.I server[:port]
] -d
.I destination
.br
.B lpadmin
[ -E ] [-U
.I username
] [ -h
.I server[:port]
] -p
.I destination
[ -R
.I name-default
]
.I option(s)
.br
.B lpadmin
[ -E ] [-U
.I username
] [ -h
.I server[:port]
] -x
.I destination
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIlpadmin\fR configures printer and class queues provided by
CUPS. It can also be used to set the server default printer or
class.
.LP
When specified before the \fI-d\fR, \fI-p\fR, or \fI-x\fR
options, the \fI-E\fR option forces encryption when connecting to
the server.
.LP
The first form of the command (\fI-d\fR) sets the default printer
or class to \fIdestination\fR.  Subsequent print jobs submitted
via the \fIlp(1)\fR or \fIlpr(1)\fR commands will use this
destination unless the user specifies otherwise with the
\fIlpoptions(1)\fR command.
.LP
The second form of the command (\fI-p\fR) configures the named
printer or class.  The additional options are described below.
.LP
The third form of the command (\fI-x\fR) deletes the printer or
class \fIdestination\fR. Any jobs that are pending for the
destination will be removed and any job that is currently printed
will be aborted.
.SH CONFIGURATION OPTIONS
The following options are recognized when configuring a printer
queue:
.TP 5
-c class
.br
Adds the named \fIprinter\fR to \fIclass\fR.  If \fIclass\fR does
not exist it is created automatically.
.TP 5
-i interface
.br
Sets a System V style interface script for the printer. This
option cannot be specified with the \fI-P\fR option (PPD file)
and is intended for providing support for legacy printer drivers.
.TP 5
-m model
.br
Sets a standard System V interface script or PPD file for the printer from the
\fImodel\fR directory or using one of the driver interfaces. Use the \fI-m\fR
option with the \fIlpinfo(8)\fR command to get a list of supported models.
.TP 5
-o cupsIPPSupplies=true
.TP 5
-o cupsIPPSupplies=false
.br
Specifies whether IPP supply level values should be reported.
.TP 5
-o cupsSNMPSupplies=true
.TP 5
-o cupsSNMPSupplies=false
.br
Specifies whether SNMP supply level (RFC 3805) values should be reported.
.TP 5
-o job-k-limit=value
.br
Sets the kilobyte limit for per-user quotas. The value is an
integer number of kilobytes; one kilobyte is 1024 bytes.
.TP 5
-o job-page-limit=value
.br
Sets the page limit for per-user quotas. The value is the integer
number of pages that can be printed; double-sided pages are
counted as two pages.
.TP 5
-o job-quota-period=value
.br
Sets the accounting period for per-user quotas. The value is an
integer number of seconds; 86,400 seconds are in one day.
.TP 5
-o job-sheets-default=banner
.TP 5
-o job-sheets-default=banner,banner
.br
Sets the default banner page(s) to use for print jobs.
.TP 5
-o name=value
.br
Sets a PPD option for the printer. PPD options can be listed using the \fI-l\fR
option with the \fIlpoptions(1)\fR command.
.TP 5
-o name-default=value
.br
Sets a default server-side option for the destination. Any print-time
option can be defaulted, e.g. "-o cpi-default=17" to set the default
"cpi" option value to 17.
.TP 5
-o port-monitor=name
.br
Sets the binary communications program to use when printing,
"none", "bcp", or "tbcp". The default program is "none". The
specified port monitor must be listed in the printer's PPD file.
.TP 5
-o printer-error-policy=name
.br
Sets the error policy to be used when the printer backend is
unable to send the job to the printer. The name must be one of
"abort-job", "retry-job", "retry-current-job", or "stop-printer". The default
error policy is "stop-printer" for printers and "retry-current-job" for
classes.
.TP 5
-o printer-is-shared=true/false
.br
Sets the destination to shared/published or unshared/unpublished.
Shared/published destinations are publicly announced by the server
on the LAN based on the browsing configuration in
\fBcupsd.conf\fR, while unshared/unpublished destinations are not
announced. The default value is "true".
.TP 5
-o printer-op-policy=name
.br
Sets the IPP operation policy associated with the destination. The
name must be defined in the \fBcupsd.conf\fR in a Policy section.
The default operation policy is "default".
.TP 5
-R name-default
.br
Deletes the named option from \fIprinter\fR.
.TP 5
-r class
.br
Removes the named \fIprinter\fR from \fIclass\fR.  If the
resulting class becomes empty it is removed.
.TP 5
-u allow:user,user,@group
.TP 5
-u deny:user,user,@group
.TP 5
-u allow:all
.TP 5
-u deny:none
.br
Sets user-level access control on a destination. Names starting with
"@" are interpreted as UNIX groups. The latter two forms turn
user-level access control off.
.TP 5
-v "device-uri"
.br
Sets the \fIdevice-uri\fR attribute of the printer queue. Use the \fI-v\fR
option with the \fIlpinfo(8)\fR command to get a list of supported device URIs
and schemes.
.TP 5
-D "info"
.br
Provides a textual description of the destination.
.TP 5
-E
.br
Enables the destination and accepts jobs; this is the same as running the
\fIcupsaccept(8)\fR and \fIcupsenable(8)\fR programs on the destination.
.TP 5
-L "location"
.br
Provides a textual location of the destination.
.TP 5
-P ppd-file
.br
Specifies a PostScript Printer Description file to use with the
printer. If specified, this option overrides the \fI-i\fR option
(interface script).
.SH COMPATIBILITY
Unlike the System V printing system, CUPS allows printer names to
contain any printable character except SPACE, TAB, "/", or "#".
Also, printer and class names are \fInot\fR case-sensitive.
Finally, the CUPS version of \fIlpadmin\fR may ask the user for
an access password depending on the printing system
configuration. This differs from the System V version which
requires the root user to execute this command.
.SH LIMITATIONS
The CUPS version of \fIlpadmin\fR does not support all of the
System V or Solaris printing system configuration options.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIcupsaccept(8)\fR, \fIcupsenable(8)\fR, \fIlpinfo(8)\fR,
\fIlpoptions(1)\fR,
.br
http://localhost:631/help
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2007-2013 by Apple Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: lpadmin.man 7600 2008-05-20 21:06:23Z mike $".
.\"
