.\"
.\" "$Id: lpc.8,v 1.2 1999/09/22 20:06:40 mike Exp $"
.\"
.\"   lpc man page for the Common UNIX Printing System (CUPS).
.\"
.\"   Copyright 1997-1999 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, and computer programs are the
.\"   property of Easy Software Products and are protected by Federal
.\"   copyright law.  Distribution and use rights are outlined in the file
.\"   "LICENSE.txt" which should have been included with this file.  If this
.\"   file is missing or damaged please contact Easy Software Products
.\"   at:
.\"
.\"       Attn: CUPS Licensing Information
.\"       Easy Software Products
.\"       44141 Airport View Drive, Suite 204
.\"       Hollywood, Maryland 20636-3111 USA
.\"
.\"       Voice: (301) 373-9603
.\"       EMail: cups-info@cups.org
.\"         WWW: http://www.cups.org
.\"
.TH lpc 8 "Common UNIX Printing System" "22 September 1999" "Easy Software Products"
.SH NAME
lpc \- line printer control program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lpc
[
.I command
[
.I parameter(s)
] ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIlpc\fR provides limited control over printer and class queues provided by
CUPS. It can also be used to query the state of queues.
.LP
If no command is specified on the command-line, \fRlpc\fR will display a
prompt and accept commands from the standard input.
.SH COMMANDS
The \fIlpc\fR program accepts a subset of commands accepted by the Berkeley
\fIlpc\fR program of the same name:
.TP 5
\fIexit
.br
Exits the command interpreter.
.TP 5
help \fI[command]\fR
.br
Displays a short help message.
.TP 5
quit
.br
Exits the command interpreter.
.TP 5
status \fI[queue]\fR
.br
Displays the status of one or more printer or class queues.
.TP 5
? \fI[command]\fR
.br
Display a short help message.
.SH LIMITATIONS
Since \fIlpc\fR is geared towards the Berkeley printing system, it is impossible
to use \fIlpc\fR to configure printer or class queues provided by CUPS.  To
configure printer or class queues you must use the \fIlpadmin(8)\fR command
or another CUPS-compatible client with that functionality.
.SH COMPATIBILITY
The CUPS version of \fIlpc\fR does not implement all of the standard Berkeley
commands.
.SH SEE ALSO
accept(8), cancel(1), disable(8), enable(8), lp(1), lpr(1), lprm(1),
lpstat(1), reject(8),
CUPS Software Administrators Manual
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1993-1999 by Easy Software Products, All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: lpc.8,v 1.2 1999/09/22 20:06:40 mike Exp $".
.\"
