.\"
.\" "$Id: lpmove.man 12854 2015-08-28 14:08:00Z msweet $"
.\"
.\" lpmove man page for CUPS.
.\"
.\" Copyright 2007-2014 by Apple Inc.
.\" Copyright 1997-2006 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\" These coded instructions, statements, and computer programs are the
.\" property of Apple Inc. and are protected by Federal copyright
.\" law.  Distribution and use rights are outlined in the file "LICENSE.txt"
.\" which should have been included with this file.  If this file is
.\" file is missing or damaged, see the license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH lpmove 8 "CUPS" "12 June 2014" "Apple Inc."
.SH NAME
lpmove \- move a job or all jobs to a new destination
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lpmove
[
.B \-E
] [
\fB\-h \fIserver\fR[\fB:\fIport\fR]
] [
.B \-U
.I username
]
.I job
.I destination
.br
.B lpmove
[
.B \-E
] [
\fB\-h \fIserver\fR[\fB:\fIport\fR]
] [
.B \-U
.I username
]
.I source
.I destination
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBlpmove\fR moves the specified \fIjob\fR or all jobs from \fIsource\fR to \fIdestination\fR. \fIjob\fR can be the job ID number or the old destination and job ID.
.SH OPTIONS
The \fBlpmove\fR command supports the following options:
.TP 5
.B \-E
Forces encryption when connecting to the server.
.TP 5
\fB\-U \fIusername\fR
Specifies an alternate username.
.TP 5
\fB\-h \fIserver\fR[\fB:\fIport\fR]
Specifies an alternate server.
.SH EXAMPLES
Move job 123 from "oldprinter" to "newprinter":
.nf

    lpmove 123 newprinter

            \fIor\fR

    lpmove oldprinter-123 newprinter

.fi
Move all jobs from "oldprinter" to "newprinter":
.nf

    lpmove oldprinter newprinter
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cancel (1),
.BR lp (1),
.BR lpr (1),
.BR lprm (1),
.br
CUPS Online Help (http://localhost:631/help)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \[co] 2007-2015 by Apple Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: lpmove.man 12854 2015-08-28 14:08:00Z msweet $".
.\"
