.\"
.\" "$Id: lppasswd.man,v 1.1.2.2 2002/01/02 18:04:53 mike Exp $"
.\"
.\"   lpadmin man page for the Common UNIX Printing System (CUPS).
.\"
.\"   Copyright 1997-2002 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, and computer programs are the
.\"   property of Easy Software Products and are protected by Federal
.\"   copyright law.  Distribution and use rights are outlined in the file
.\"   "LICENSE.txt" which should have been included with this file.  If this
.\"   file is missing or damaged please contact Easy Software Products
.\"   at:
.\"
.\"       Attn: CUPS Licensing Information
.\"       Easy Software Products
.\"       44141 Airport View Drive, Suite 204
.\"       Hollywood, Maryland 20636-3111 USA
.\"
.\"       Voice: (301) 373-9603
.\"       EMail: cups-info@cups.org
.\"         WWW: http://www.cups.org
.\"
.TH lppasswd 1 "Common UNIX Printing System" "7 June 2001" "Easy Software Products"
.SH NAME
lppasswd \- add, change, or delete digest passwords.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lppasswd
[ -a ] [ -g
.I groupname
] [ -x ] [
.I username
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIlppasswd\fR adds, changes, or deletes passwords in the CUPS digest
password file, \fIpasswd.md5\fR. When run by a normal user, \fIlppasswd\fR
will prompt for the old and new passwords. When run by the super-user,
\fIlppasswd\fR can add new accounts (\fI-a username\fR), change existing
accounts (\fIusername\fR), or delete accounts (\fI-x username\fR) in the
digest password file. Digest usernames do not have to match local UNIX
usernames, but only UNIX usernames are supported by the CUPS client programs
(\fIlp(1)\fR, \fIlpr(1)\fR, etc.)
.LP
The \fI-g\fR option specifies a group other than the system group - "sys",
"system", or "root", depending on the operating system.
.SH SECURITY ISSUES
The \fIlppasswd\fR command is installed setuid to root. While every attempt
has been made to make it secure against exploits that could grant super-user
priviledges to unpriviledged users, paranoid system administrators may wish
to disable or change the ownership of the program to an unpriviledged
account.
.SH SEE ALSO
lp(1), lpr(1),
CUPS Software Administrators Manual,
CUPS Software Users Manual,
http://localhost:631/documentation.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1993-2002 by Easy Software Products, All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: lppasswd.man,v 1.1.2.2 2002/01/02 18:04:53 mike Exp $".
.\"
