.\"
.\" "$Id: lpstat.man,v 1.5 2001/01/23 17:36:22 mike Exp $"
.\"
.\"   lpstat man page for the Common UNIX Printing System (CUPS).
.\"
.\"   Copyright 1997-2001 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, and computer programs are the
.\"   property of Easy Software Products and are protected by Federal
.\"   copyright law.  Distribution and use rights are outlined in the file
.\"   "LICENSE.txt" which should have been included with this file.  If this
.\"   file is missing or damaged please contact Easy Software Products
.\"   at:
.\"
.\"       Attn: CUPS Licensing Information
.\"       Easy Software Products
.\"       44141 Airport View Drive, Suite 204
.\"       Hollywood, Maryland 20636-3111 USA
.\"
.\"       Voice: (301) 373-9603
.\"       EMail: cups-info@cups.org
.\"         WWW: http://www.cups.org
.\"
.TH lpstat 1 "Common UNIX Printing System" "23 January 2001" "Easy Software Products"
.SH NAME
lpstat \- print cups status information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lpstat
[ -E ] [ -a [
.I destination(s)
] ] [ -c [
.I class(es)
] [ -d ] [ -h
.I server
] [ -l ] [ -o [
.I destination(s)
] ] [ -p [
.I printer(s)
] ] [ -r ] [ -R ] [ -s ] [ -t ] [ -u [
.I user(s)
] ] [ -v [
.I printer(s)
] ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBlpstat\fR displays status information about the current classes, jobs, and
printers. When run with no arguments, \fBlpstat\fR will list jobs queued by
the user. Other options include:
.TP 5
\-E
.br
Forces encryption when connecting to the server.
.TP 5
\-a [\fIprinter(s)\fR]
.br
Shows the accepting state of printer queues. If no printers are
specified then all printers are listed.
.TP 5
\-c [\fIclass(es)\fR]
.br
Shows the printer classes and the printers that belong to them. If no
classes are specified then all classes are listed.
.TP 5
\-d
.br
Shows the current default destination.
.TP 5
\-h \fIserver\fR
.br
Specifies the CUPS server to communicate with.
.TP 5
\-l
.br
Shows a long listing of printers, classes, or jobs.
.TP 5
\-o [\fIdestination(s)\fR]
.br
Shows the jobs queue on the specified destinations. If no destinations are
specified all jobs are shown.
.TP 5
\-p [\fIprinter(s)\fR]
.br
Shows the printers and whether or not they are enabled for printing. If
no printers are specified then all printers are listed.
.TP 5
\-r
.br
Shows whether or not the CUPS server is running.
.TP 5
\-R
.br
Shows the ranking of print jobs.
.TP 5
\-s
.br
Shows a status summary, including the system default destination, a
list of classes and their member printers, and a list of printers and
their associated devices. This is equivalent to using the "-d", "-c",
and "-p" options.
.TP 5
\-t
.br
Shows all status information. This is equivalent to using the "-r",
"-d", "-c", "-d", "-v", "-a", "-p", and "-o" options.
.TP 5
\-u [\fIuser(s)\fR]
.br
Shows a list of print jobs queued by the specified users. If no users
are specified, lists the jobs queued by the current user.
.TP 5
\-v [\fIprinter(s)\fR]
.br
Shows the printers and what device they are attached to. If no printers
are specified then all printers are listed.
.SH COMPATIBILITY
Unlike the System V printing system, CUPS allows printer names to contain
any printable character except SPACE and TAB. Also, printer and class names are
\fBnot\fR case-sensitive.
.LP
The "-h" option is not a standard System V option.
.LP
The Solaris "-f", "-P", and "-S" options are silently ignored.
.SH SEE ALSO
cancel(1), lp(1),
CUPS Software Users Manual,
http://localhost:631/documentation.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1993-2001 by Easy Software Products, All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: lpstat.man,v 1.5 2001/01/23 17:36:22 mike Exp $".
.\"
