.\"
.\" "$Id: mime.convs.5,v 1.2 1999/09/22 20:06:42 mike Exp $"
.\"
.\"   mime.convs man page for the Common UNIX Printing System (CUPS).
.\"
.\"   Copyright 1997-1999 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, and computer programs are the
.\"   property of Easy Software Products and are protected by Federal
.\"   copyright law.  Distribution and use rights are outlined in the file
.\"   "LICENSE.txt" which should have been included with this file.  If this
.\"   file is missing or damaged please contact Easy Software Products
.\"   at:
.\"
.\"       Attn: CUPS Licensing Information
.\"       Easy Software Products
.\"       44141 Airport View Drive, Suite 204
.\"       Hollywood, Maryland 20636-3111 USA
.\"
.\"       Voice: (301) 373-9603
.\"       EMail: cups-info@cups.org
.\"         WWW: http://www.cups.org
.\"
.TH mime.convs 5 "Common UNIX Printing System" "22 September 1999" "Easy Software Products"
.SH NAME
mime.convs \- mime type conversion file for cups
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fImime.convs\fR file defines the filters that are available for
converting files from one format to another. The standard filters
support text, PDF, PostScript, HP-GL/2, and many types of image files.
.LP
Additional filters can be added to the \fImime.convs\fR file or to
other files in the configuration directory (\fB/var/cups/conf\fR) with
the extension ".convs".
.SH SEE ALSO
classes.conf(5), cupsd(8), cupsd.conf(5), mime.types(5), printers.conf(5),
CUPS Software Administrators Manual,
CUPS Interface Design Description
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1993-1999 by Easy Software Products, All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: mime.convs.5,v 1.2 1999/09/22 20:06:42 mike Exp $".
.\"
