.\"
.\" "$Id: ppdc.man 343 2007-07-13 19:52:48Z mike $"
.\"
.\"   ppdc man page for the CUPS Driver Development Kit.
.\"
.\"   Copyright 2007-2008 by Apple Inc.
.\"   Copyright 1997-2007 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, and computer programs are the
.\"   property of Apple Inc. and are protected by Federal copyright
.\"   law.  Distribution and use rights are outlined in the file "LICENSE.txt"
.\"   which should have been included with this file.  If this file is
.\"   file is missing or damaged, see the license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH ppdc 1 "CUPS Driver Development Kit" "19 May 2008" "Apple Inc."
.SH NAME
ppdc \- cups ppd compiler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ppdc
[ -D
.I name=value
] [ -I
.I include-directory
] [ -c
.I message-catalog
] [ -d
.I output-directory
] [ -l
.I language(s)
] [-m] [-t] [ -v ] [ -z ] [ --cr ] [ --crlf ] [ --lf ]
.I source-file
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIppdc\fR compiles PPDC source files into one or more PPD
files.
.PP
The \fI-D\fR option sets the named variable for use in the
source file. It is equivalent to using the #define directive
in the source file.
.PP
The \fI-I\fR option specifies an alternate include directory;
multiple \fI-I\fR options can be supplied to add additional
directories.
.PP
The \fI-c\fR option specifies a single message catalog file in GNU
gettext source format (filename.po) to be used for localization.
.PP
The \fI-d\fR option specifies the output directory for PPD
files. The default output directory is "ppd".
.PP
The \fI-l\fR option specifies one or more languages to use when
localizing the PPD file(s). The default language is "en"
(English). Separate multiple languages with commas, for example
"de_DE,en_UK,es_ES,es_MX,es_US,fr_CA,fr_FR,it_IT" will create PPD
files with German, UK English, Spanish (Spain, Mexico, and US),
French (France and Canada), and Italian languages in each file.
.PP
The \fI-m\fR option specifies that the output filename should be
based on the ModelName value instead of FileName or PCFilenName.
.PP
The \fI-t\fR option specifies that PPD files should be tested instead
of generated.
.PP
The \fI-v\fR option provides more verbose output, basically a
running status of which files are being loaded or written.
.PP
The \fI-z\fR option generates compressed PPD files (filename.ppd.gz).
The default is to generate uncompressed PPD files.
.PP
The \fI--cr\fR, \fI--crlf\fR, and \fI--lf\fR options specify the
line ending to use - carriage return, carriage return and line feed,
or line feed. The default is to use the line feed character alone.
.SH SEE ALSO
ppdhtml(1), ppdi(1), ppdmerge(1), ppdpo(1), ppdcfile(5),
http://localhost:631/help
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2007-2008 by Apple Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: ppdc.man 343 2007-07-13 19:52:48Z mike $".
.\"
