.\"
.\" "$Id: ppdhtml.man 12854 2015-08-28 14:08:00Z msweet $"
.\"
.\" ppdhtml man page for CUPS.
.\"
.\" Copyright 2007-2014 by Apple Inc.
.\" Copyright 1997-2007 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\" These coded instructions, statements, and computer programs are the
.\" property of Apple Inc. and are protected by Federal copyright
.\" law.  Distribution and use rights are outlined in the file "LICENSE.txt"
.\" which should have been included with this file.  If this file is
.\" file is missing or damaged, see the license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH ppdhtml 1 "CUPS" "12 June 2014" "Apple Inc."
.SH NAME
ppdhtml \- cups html summary generator (deprecated)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ppdhtml
[
\fB\-D \fIname\fR[\fB=\fIvalue\fR]
] [
.B \-I
.I include-directory
]
.I source-file
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBppdhtml\fR reads a driver information file and produces a HTML summary page that lists all of the drivers in a file and the supported options.
\fBThis program is deprecated and will be removed in a future release of CUPS.\fR
.SH OPTIONS
\fBppdhtml\fR supports the following options:
.TP 5
\fB\-D \fIname\fR[\fB=\fIvalue\fR]
Sets the named variable for use in the source file.
It is equivalent to using the \fI#define\fR directive in the source file.
.TP 5
\fB\-I \fIinclude-directory\fR
Specifies an alternate include directory.
Multiple \fI-I\fR options can be supplied to add additional directories.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ppdc (1),
.BR ppdcfile (5),
.BR ppdi (1),
.BR ppdmerge (1),
.BR ppdpo (1),
CUPS Online Help (http://localhost:631/help)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \[co] 2007-2015 by Apple Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: ppdhtml.man 12854 2015-08-28 14:08:00Z msweet $".
.\"
