.\"
.\" "$Id: ppdmerge.man 12854 2015-08-28 14:08:00Z msweet $"
.\"
.\" ppdmerge man page for CUPS.
.\"
.\" Copyright 2007-2014 by Apple Inc.
.\" Copyright 1997-2007 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\" These coded instructions, statements, and computer programs are the
.\" property of Apple Inc. and are protected by Federal copyright
.\" law.  Distribution and use rights are outlined in the file "LICENSE.txt"
.\" which should have been included with this file.  If this file is
.\" file is missing or damaged, see the license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH ppdmerge 1 "CUPS" "12 June 2014" "Apple Inc."
.SH NAME
ppdmerge \- merge ppd files (deprecated)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ppdmerge
[
.B \-o
.I output-ppd-file
]
.I ppd-file
.I ppd-file
[ ...
.I ppd-file
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBppdmerge\fR merges two or more PPD files into a single, multi-language
PPD file.
\fBThis program is deprecated and will be removed in a future release of CUPS.\fR
.SH OPTIONS
\fBppdmerge\fR supports the following options:
.TP
\fB\-o \fIoutput-ppd-file\fR
Specifies the PPD file to create.
If not specified, the merged PPD file is written to the standard output.
If the output file already exists, it is silently overwritten.
.SH NOTES
\fBppdmerge\fR does not check whether the merged PPD files are for the same device.
Merging of different device PPDs will yield unpredictable results.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ppdc (1),
.BR ppdhtml (1),
.BR ppdi (1),
.BR ppdpo (1),
.BR ppdcfile (5),
CUPS Online Help (http://localhost:631/help)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \[co] 2007-2015 by Apple Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: ppdmerge.man 12854 2015-08-28 14:08:00Z msweet $".
.\"
