.\"
.\" "$Id: printers.conf.man 7600 2008-05-20 21:06:23Z mike $"
.\"
.\"   printers.conf man page for the Common UNIX Printing System (CUPS).
.\"
.\"   Copyright 2007-2009 by Apple Inc.
.\"   Copyright 1997-2006 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, and computer programs are the
.\"   property of Apple Inc. and are protected by Federal copyright
.\"   law.  Distribution and use rights are outlined in the file "LICENSE.txt"
.\"   which should have been included with this file.  If this file is
.\"   file is missing or damaged, see the license at "http://www.cups.org/".
.\"
.TH printers.conf 5 "CUPS" "29 April 2009" "Apple Inc."
.SH NAME
printers.conf \- printer configuration file for cups
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIprinters.conf\fR file defines the local printers that are
available. It is normally located in the \fI/etc/cups\fR directory and
is generated automatically by the \fIcupsd(8)\fR program when printers
are added or deleted.
.LP
Each line in the file can be a configuration directive, a blank line,
or a comment. Comment lines start with the # character.
.SH DIRECTIVES
.TP 5
<Printer name> ... </Printer>
.br
Defines a specific printer.
.TP 5
<DefaultPrinter name> ... </Printer>
.br
Defines a default printer.
.TP 5
Accepting Yes
.TP 5
Accepting No
.br
Specifies whether the printer is accepting new jobs.
.TP 5
AllowUser [ user @group ... ]
.br
Allows specific users and groups to print to the printer.
.TP 5
DenyUser [ user @group ... ]
.br
Prevents specific users and groups from printing to the printer.
.TP 5
DeviceURI uri
.br
Specifies the device URI for a printer.
.TP 5
ErrorPolicy abort-job
.TP 5
ErrorPolicy retry-current-job
.TP 5
ErrorPolicy retry-job
.TP 5
ErrorPolicy stop-printer
.br
Specifies the error policy for the printer.
.TP 5
Info text
.br
Specifies human-readable text describing the printer.
.TP 5
JobSheets banner banner
.br
Specifies the banner pages to use for the printer.
.TP 5
KLimit number
.br
Specifies the job-k-limit value for the printer.
.TP 5
Location text
.br
Specifies human-readable text describing the location of the printer.
.TP 5
OpPolicy name
.br
Specifies the operation policy for the printer.
.TP 5
PageLimit number
.br
Specifies the job-page-limit value for the printer.
.TP 5
PortMonitor monitor
.br
Specifies the port monitor for a printer.
.TP 5
QuotaPeriod seconds
.br
Specifies the job-quota-period value for the printer.
.TP 5
Shared Yes
.TP 5
Shared No
.br
Specifies whether the printer is shared.
.TP 5
State idle
.TP 5
State stopped
.br
Specifies the initial state of the printer (Idle or Stopped)
.TP 5
StateMessage text
.br
Specifies the message associated with the state.
.TP 5
StateTime seconds
.br
Specifies the date/time associated with the state.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIclasses.conf(5)\fR, \fIcupsd(8)\fR, \fIcupsd.conf(5)\fR,
\fImime.convs(5)\fR, \fImime.types(5)\fR,
.br
http://localhost:631/help
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2007-2009 by Apple Inc.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: printers.conf.man 7600 2008-05-20 21:06:23Z mike $".
.\"
