.\" 
.\" "$Id: lpmove.man,v 1.1 2004/10/20 18:00:54 mike Exp $"
.\" 
.\" lpmove man page for the Common UNIX Printing System (CUPS).
.\" 
.\" Copyright 1997-2004 by Easy Software Products.
.\" 
.\" These coded instructions, statements, and computer programs are the
.\" property of Easy Software Products and are protected by Federal
.\" copyright law.  Distribution and use rights are outlined in the file
.\" "LICENSE.txt" which should have been included with this file.  If this
.\" file is missing or damaged please contact Easy Software Products
.\" at:
.\" 
.\" Attn: CUPS Licensing Information
.\" Easy Software Products
.\" 44141 Airport View Drive, Suite 204
.\" Hollywood, Maryland 20636-3142 USA
.\" 
.\" Voice: (301) 373-9600
.\" EMail: cups-info@cups.org
.\" WWW: http://www.cups.org
.\" 
.TH "lpmove" "8" "Common UNIX Printing System" "23 de Enero de 2001" "Easy Software Products"
.SH "NOMBRE"
lpmove \- mueve un trabajo a un nuevo destino
.SH "SINOPSIS"
.B lpmove
[ \-E ]
.I trabajo destino
.SH "DESCRIPCIÓN"
\fBlpmove\fR mueve el \fItrabajo\fR especificado a \fIdestino\fR. \fItrabajo\fR puede ser el número ID del trabajo o el destino antiguo y el número ID del trabajo:
.br 
.nf 

     lpmove 123 impresora_nueva
     lpmove impresora_antigua\-123 impresora_nueva
.fi 
.LP 
La opción \fI\-E\fR hace que se use encriptación en la conexión con el servidor.
.SH "COMPATIBILIDAD"
La versión de System V de este comando también permite mover todos los trabajos de una cola a otra. CUPS no soporta actualmente esta funcionalidad.
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
cancel(1), lp(1),
Manual de usuario de CUPS,
http://localhost:631/documentation.html
.SH "DERECHOS DE COPIA"
Los derechos de copia 1993\-2004 son de Easy Software Products. Todos los derechos reservados.

.SH "TRADUCCIÓN"
Juan Pablo González Riopedre <riopedre@tiscali.es>
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: lpmove.man,v 1.1 2004/10/20 18:00:54 mike Exp $".
.\"
