.\"
.\" "$Id: lpinfo.man,v 1.1 2002/05/21 19:59:43 mike Exp $"
.\"
.\"   lpinfo man page for the Common UNIX Printing System (CUPS).
.\"
.\"   Copyright 1997-2002 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, and computer programs are the
.\"   property of Easy Software Products and are protected by Federal
.\"   copyright law.  Distribution and use rights are outlined in the file
.\"   "LICENSE.txt" which should have been included with this file.  If this
.\"   file is missing or damaged please contact Easy Software Products
.\"   at:
.\"
.\"       Attn: CUPS Licensing Information
.\"       Easy Software Products
.\"       44141 Airport View Drive, Suite 204
.\"       Hollywood, Maryland 20636-3111 USA
.\"
.\"       Voice: (301) 373-9603
.\"       EMail: cups-info@cups.org
.\"         WWW: http://www.cups.org
.\"
.TH lpinfo 8 "Common UNIX Printing System" "23 Janvier 2001" "Easy Software Products"
.SH NOM
lpinfo \- Affiche les périphériques et pilotes disponibles
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lpinfo
[ -E ] [ -l ] [ -m ] [ -v ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBlpinfo\fR affiche la liste des périphériques ou pilotes connus par le
serveur CUPS. Il est impératif d'utiliser une des options \fI-m\fR ou \fI-v\fR
pour obtenir quelque chose en sortie.
.TP 5
\-E
.br
Force le cryptage lors de la connexion au serveur.
.TP 5
\-l
.br
Affiche une liste détaillée des périphériques et pilotes disponibles.
.TP 5
\-m
.br
Affiche les périphériques disponibles.
.TP 5
\-v
.br
Affiche les pilotes disponibles.
.SH COMPATIBILITÉ
La commande \fBlpinfo\fR est spécifique à CUPS.
.SH VOIR AUSSI
lpadmin(8),
CUPS Software Administrators Manual,
http://localhost:631/documentation.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1993-2002 Easy Software Products, Tous droits réservés.
.SH TRADUCTION
Gilles QUERRET <gilles.querret@nerim.net>
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: lpinfo.man,v 1.1 2002/05/21 19:59:43 mike Exp $".
.\"

