.\"
.\" "$Id: lpmove.man,v 1.4 2003/03/12 20:41:42 mike Exp $"
.\"
.\"   lpmove man page for the Common UNIX Printing System (CUPS).
.\"   Based on cvs revision 1.7
.\"
.\"   Copyright 1997-2003 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, and computer programs are the
.\"   property of Easy Software Products and are protected by Federal
.\"   copyright law.  Distribution and use rights are outlined in the file
.\"   "LICENSE.txt" which should have been included with this file.  If this
.\"   file is missing or damaged please contact Easy Software Products
.\"   at:
.\"
.\"       Attn: CUPS Licensing Information
.\"       Easy Software Products
.\"       44141 Airport View Drive, Suite 204
.\"       Hollywood, Maryland 20636-3111 USA
.\"
.\"       Voice: (301) 373-9603
.\"       EMail: cups-info@cups.org
.\"         WWW: http://www.cups.org
.\"
.TH lpmove 8 "Common UNIX Printing System" "23 Janvier 2001" "Easy Software Products"
.SH NOM
lpmove \- Déplace un travail d'impression vers une nouvelle destination
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lpmove
[ -E ]
.I ID_du_travail destination
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBlpmove\fR déplace les \fItravaux d'impression\fR vers une nouvelle
\fIdestination\fR. On peut spécifier le travail sous deux formes\ :
soit l'ID du travail d'impression, soit ancienne destination et ID du travail.
Exemple\ :
.br
.nf

     lpmove 123 NouvelleImprimante
     lpmove AncienneImprimante-123 NouvelleImprimante
.fi
.LP
L'option \fI-E\fR force le cryptage des données lors de la connexion au serveur.
.SH COMPATIBILITÉ
La version System V de \fBlpmove \fR permet de déplacer tous les travaux d'impression
d'une file d'attente vers une autre. Cette fonctionnalité n'est pas gérée par CUPS.
.SH VOIR AUSSI
cancel(1), lp(1),
CUPS Software Users Manual,
http://localhost:631/documentation.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1993-2003 Easy Software Products, Tous droits réservés.
.SH TRADUCTION
Gilles QUERRET <gilles.querret@nerim.net>
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: lpmove.man,v 1.4 2003/03/12 20:41:42 mike Exp $".
.\"
