.\"
.\" "$Id: lpq.man,v 1.1 2002/05/21 19:59:43 mike Exp $"
.\"
.\"   lpq man page for the Common UNIX Printing System (CUPS).
.\"
.\"   Copyright 1997-2001 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, and computer programs are the
.\"   property of Easy Software Products and are protected by Federal
.\"   copyright law.  Distribution and use rights are outlined in the file
.\"   "LICENSE.txt" which should have been included with this file.  If this
.\"   file is missing or damaged please contact Easy Software Products
.\"   at:
.\"
.\"       Attn: CUPS Licensing Information
.\"       Easy Software Products
.\"       44141 Airport View Drive, Suite 204
.\"       Hollywood, Maryland 20636-3111 USA
.\"
.\"       Voice: (301) 373-9603
.\"       EMail: cups-info@cups.org
.\"         WWW: http://www.cups.org
.\"
.TH lpq 1 "Common UNIX Printing System" "13 Février 2001" "Easy Software Products"
.SH NOM
lpq \- Affiche les travaux en attente d'une imprimante
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lpq
[ -E ] [ \-P
.I destination
] [ \-a ] [ \-l ] [
.I +intervalle
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIlpq\fR affiche les travaux en attente d'une imprimante. Si aucune imprimante
ou classe n'est donnée dans la ligne de commande, les travaux en attente
sur la destination par défaut seront affichés.
.LP
L'option \fIintervalle\fR permet d'afficher les travaux en attente en continu
jusqu'à ce qu'il n'y en ait plus. La liste est réaffichée toutes les \fIintervalle\fR
secondes.
.LP
L'option \fI-E\fR force le cryptage lors de la connexion au serveur.
.LP
L'option \fI-a\fR affiche les travaux de toutes les imprimantes.
.LP
L'option \fI-l\fR affiche les travaux dans un format verbeux.
.SH VOIR AUSSI
cancel(1), lp(1), lpr(1), lprm(1), lpstat(1)
.br
CUPS Software Users Manual,
http://localhost:631/documentation.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1993-2001 Easy Software Products, Tous droits réservés.
.SH TRADUCTION
Gilles QUERRET <gilles.querret@nerim.net>
.\"
.\" End of "$Id: lpq.man,v 1.1 2002/05/21 19:59:43 mike Exp $".
.\"
