---
title: CUPS v1.1.6-3 Source Update Now Available!
layout: post
permalink: /blog/:year-:month-:day-:title.html
---

<P>An updated source distribution for CUPS is now available that fixessome distribution problems.  The new distribution also includes severalsecurity and bug fixes:<UL>	<LI>The configure script put the JPEG library before the	TIFF library; this caused problems in some	configurations since the TIFF library also supports	JPEG compression of TIFF images.	<LI>Updated the configure script and makefiles to handle	admin man pages with the "1m" extension (HP-UX, IRIX,	Solaris, Tru64) and in odd directories (IRIX)	<LI>The updated cupsTempFile() function did not return	the filename when called with a filename buffer of	NULL (previously it used a static buffer.)	<LI>FreeBSD uses /dev/unlptN, but NetBSD and OpenBSD use	/dev/ulptN.	<LI>DeletePrinter() didn't remove the printer from any	classes it was a member of.	<LI>DeletePrinterFromClass() didn't preserve the	implicit status of a class.	<LI>DeletePrinterFromClasses() didn't remove printers	from implicit classes.	<LI>StartJob() didn't send the job-sheets, job-priority,	and job-hold-until attributes to remote printers.	<LI>LoadAllJobs() was looking for job-sheets-completed	instead of job-media-sheets-completed.  This would	prevent accumulation of page data after a restart	of the scheduler.	<LI>The pstops and imagetops filters now generate copies	using the appropriate method for a Level 1, 2, or 3	printer since some Level 2/3 printers don't support	the /#copies variable anymore.	<LI>The man page for cups-lpd did not mention the "-o"	option.	<LI>The IPP backend didn't handle version-not-supported	errors and revert to IPP/1.0 (previously it only checked	for a bad-request error)	<LI>Caldera fix: lpc now reports unimplemented commands as	unimplemented, not invalid.	<LI>Caldera fix: lpq didn't recognize BSD lpq "-a" option.	<LI>Caldera fix: lpr didn't recognize BSD lpr "-1", "-2",	"-3", "-4", "-q", or "-U" options.	<LI>RedHat fixes: patches to GNU Ghostscript	<LI>SuSE fix: temp file creation patch to GNU Ghostscript	(pstoraster).	<LI>SuSE fix: remove cgi-bin/abort.c and cgi-bin/email.c,	which are not used.	<LI>SuSE fix: missing NULL check in cgi_initialize_post().	<LI>SuSE fix: potential buffer overflows in	cgi_initialize_string().	<LI>SuSE fix: potential buffer overflows in	ippSetCGIVars()	<LI>SuSE fix: more NULL checks in ppdOpen(); also make	sure that all memory is freed on error to avoid memory	leaks.	<LI>SuSE fix: Exit from child if setgid() or setuid()	fails.	<LI>SuSE fix: Added setgroups() calls after setgid() and	setuid() calls.	<LI>SuSE fix: potential buffer overflows in httpEncode64()	calls.	<LI>SuSE fix: potential buffer overflows in httpSeparate()	<LI>SuSE fix: potential buffer overflows in ippWrite() for	bad input.	<LI>SuSE fix: potential nul skip in ppd_decode() for	missing hex digits.</UL>
