---
title: CUPS v1.1.6 is Released!
layout: post
permalink: /blog/:year-:month-:day-:title.html
---

<P>CUPS v1.1.6 is <A HREF="software.html">now available for download!</A><P>The following changes were made in v1.1.6 (since 1.1.5):<UL>	<LI>Fixed another possible DoS attack in httpGets()	<LI>Added check for "LANGUAGE = PCL" and "LANGUAGE =	POSTSCRIPT" in mime.types.	<LI>Resolution options were not being passed into the	filter programs properly.	<LI>The default compiler options for GCC no longer includ	"-g3", which apparently is deprecated in newer	versions of GCC.	<LI>CheckJobs() could cause cupsd to crash if a job is	cancelled in StartJob().	<LI>The printers.conf and classes.conf files are now	written with restricted permissions.	<LI>The round-robin algorithm used by FindAvailablePrinter()	had problems; fixes contributed by Joel Fredrikson.	<LI>If LoadAllJobs() is unable to determine the file type	of a print job, assume "application/vnd.cups-raw".	<LI>The web interface now provides a job_printer_name	value for any corresponding job_printer_uri value.	<LI>The cups-lpd mini-daemon now logs the client address	and hostname as well as all commands and errors in the	syslog file.	<LI>The IPP backend now detects the supported file formats	and only specifies the document format if it is	supported.  This makes IPP printing to network print	servers and cards more reliable without affecting the	capabilities of CUPS servers.	<LI>The time_at_xyz attributes are now converted to human-	readable dates and times for the web interfaces.	<LI>The HP and EPSON sample drivers now correctly catch	signals and eject the current page when a job is	cancelled.	<LI>Fixed bug in CGI code <LI>did not ignore control	characters (e.g. newlines) in form data.  This caused	sporatic web interface problems.	<LI>The file type logging code in the scheduler referenced	the optional document-format attribute; the new code	uses the resolved MIME type instead.	<LI>The client.conf parsing code now removes trailing	whitespace.	<LI>The MaxJobs directive was being treated as a boolean	instead of an integer.	<LI>The scheduler would not timeout remote printers if	BrowseInterval was set to 0.	<LI>The lpadmin command now supports setting of options	and user-level access control.	<LI>Added "-E" option to all printing commands to force	encryption.	<LI>The client code did not consume the response to the	OPTIONS request when switching to secure mode.	<LI>The scheduler did not output a Content-Length field	when responding to an OPTIONS request.	<LI>Added documentation on using cups-lpd with xinetd	to the man page.	<LI>The socket backend now starts retries at 5 seconds and	increases the interval to 30 seconds.  This should	provide faster printing when multiple jobs/files are	queued for a printer.	<LI>The filters and backends no longer buffer output to	stderr.  This should provide much more accurate status	reporting.</UL>
