---
title: CUPS v1.1.6-2 Source Update Now Available!
layout: post
---

<P>An updated source distribution for CUPS is now available that fixessome distribution problems.  The new distribution also includes severalsecurity fixes:<UL>	<LI>Added changes to support NetBSD startup scripts.	<LI>Added separate compiler options for pstoraster	(Ghostscript) to avoid compiler-induced errors	from Ghostscript's twisted code.	<LI>The mime.types file contained syntax errors.	<LI>Updated the *BSD USB device filenames to use	the /dev/unlptN files so that the USB device	is not reset prior to printing (causes print	corruption on many printers)	<LI>Added new cupsTempFd() function to avoid serious	security bug in glibc fopen() function.  The glibc	fopen() function unlinks a file before creating it,	which opens up possible symlink attacks.	[Editor's note: this appears only to affect a beta	 release of glibc, not any current production release]	<LI>Now reject 0-length names in add-printer and add-class	requests.	<LI>Fix for pstoraster when ZLIB is not available.	<LI>cupsGetPPD() didn't reconnect when a HTTP connection	was lost.	<LI>SuSE fix: httpConnect() didn't check that the	value from gethostbyname() was a valid IPv4 address.	<LI>SuSE fix: httpConnect() didn't allow file descriptor 0	to be used for a socket.	<LI>SuSE fix: ippRead() didn't confirm that all values in	a set were numeric or string types.	<LI>SuSE fix: lppasswd race condition fixes.	<LI>SuSE fix: directive names could overflow buffer when	reading *.conf files.	<LI>SuSE fix: HEAD requests for PPD files did not use the	same logic as GET requests.	<LI>SuSE fix: possible buffer overflow when adding	/index.html to requested directory name.	<LI>SuSE fix: possible buffer overflow when converting	IPP attributes to string options for filters.	<LI>SuSE fix: creating file: device output with mode 0666	instead of mode 0600.	<LI>SuSE fix: creating job info files with mode 0640	instead of 0600.	<LI>SuSE fix: don't rely on snprintf() for including	system name in log filenames.	<LI>SuSE fix: add bounds checking when copying quoted	and hex strings.</UL>
