---
title: GIMP-Print Drivers for CUPS 4.2.5pre2
layout: post
---

<P>Gimp-Print 4.2.5-pre2, released December 22, 2002, is a prerelease inthe Gimp-Print 4.2 series. <P>Gimp-Print is a suite of printer drivers that may be used with mostcommon UNIX print spooling systems, including CUPS, lpr, LPRng, or others.  These drivers provide high quality printing for UNIX (including Macintosh OS X 10.2 and newer) and Linux systems in many cases equal to or better than proprietary vendor-supplied drivers, and can be used for many of the most demanding printing tasks. <P>This software includes the Print plug-in for the Gimp, and GhostScript and CUPS drivers, including Foomatic data. <P>The Print plug-in for the requires the Gimp 1.2. <P>The CUPS driver requires CUPS 1.1.9 or higher.  1.1.14 or above is highly recommended, as certain translation-related bugs are fixed and it is possible to print true CMYK. <P>The Ghostscript driver requires GNU Ghostscript 5.10, 5.50, 6.51, or any later GNU Ghostscript release based on 6.51 (e. g. 6.52).  It may also be used with GNU Ghostscript 7.05, or with ESP Ghostscript 7.05. <P>The IJS GhostScript plugin driver requires GNU Ghostscript 6.53 or later, ESP Ghostscript 7.05 or later, or APFL GhostScript 7.04 or later. <P>Users of Macintosh OS X 10.2 and above can use this package, as the printing system is based on CUPS, which is supported by Gimp-print. Note that Macintosh OS X 10.0 and 10.1 (including 10.1.5) cannot use this package.  We recommend that Macintosh OS X users download the precompiled installer package from<PRE>    http://gimp-print.sourceforge.net/MacOSX.php3<P>rather than attempt to build this package from source, as using the installer is much simpler.  We further recommend that Macintosh OS X users install ESP GhostScript, to permit printing from Carbon applications (such as most Adobe applications) that generate PostScript rather than PDF output. Directions for that are also available at<PRE>    http://gimp-print.sourceforge.net/MacOSX.php3.<P>Please read the README file for full instructions on installing this package. <P>Gimp-Print 4.2.5-pre2 contains the following major changes over Gimp-Print 4.2.5-pre1:<OL><LI>If Foomatic 2.9.x is installed, the Foomatic data will be generated    with additional features: Once the options are put into groups    ("General", "PrintoutMode", "Adjustment") and a new "PrintoutMode"     option will be added, which lets the user choose pre-configurations    for common printing tasks, but still adjust the individual options.    If an older version of Foomatic is installed, the Foomatic data will    stay as before.
