---
title: PyKota v1.21beta
layout: post
---

List of changes since 1.20 :
 ============================
 
   - Support Contracts are now available from :
 
       http://www.librelogiciel.com/techsupport/
 
   - Third party administration tools like phpPykotaAdmin appeared and
     begin to be useable.
 
   - Simplified installation script. Independant script to check for
     dependencies.
 
   - Integrated pre/post banners (CUPS only).
     Banners can be either static files, executables, or pipes. PyKota
     includes a default tool to generate customizable banners on the
     fly with accounting information. Banners can be accounted for or
     not, depending on a runtime configuration directive which can be
     set on a per printer basis if needed.
 
   - The data dumper is now also available as a CGI script, and
     can dump the job history into CUPS' page_log format (even when
     using LPRng instead of CUPS). This allows real time integration
     of other tools like phpPrintAnalyzer and the like.
 
   - The output of the data dumper is now independant of the database
     backend being used. This allows third party tools like phpPykotaAdmin
     to integrate it easily.
 
   - Each user can now have an overcharging (or underchaging) factor,
     used when computing the cost of a print job.
 
   - Duplicate jobs can be denied automatically on a per printer basis.
 
   - Added an email gateway to allow end users to query their
     quota information by mail.
 
   - The location of the configuration files is now configurable.
 
   - Improved security and documentation.
 
   - Automated disconnect/reconnect in case of LDAP timeouts.
 
   - Added TLS support for LDAP.
 
   - Several new configuration directives added, see the sample configuration
     file for details.
 
   - Improved --prototype command line option to edpykota : it can now
     use most user/group attributes as the prototype for new users/groups.
 
   - Improved the internal Page Description Languages parsers.
 
   - Turkish and Traditional Chinese translations were added.
 
   - Many bug fixes and improvements.
