---
title: CUPS 1.2rc1
layout: post
---

<P>The first release candidate of CUPS 1.2 is now available for download from the CUPS web site. We are also providing binary packages for Red Hat Enterprise Linux 4 (32-bit + 64-bit Intel), Fedora Core 4 (32-bit Intel), and MacOS X 10.4 (32-bit PowerPC + Intel) for your convenience.</P><P>In accordance with the updated <A HREF="documentation.php/spec-cmp.html">CUPS Developers Guide</A>, we will have at least a two-week release candidate period to resolve any issues in the 1.2 release. <B>Report all problems with the beta release on the following page:</B><PRE>    <A HREF="http://www.cups.org/str.php">http://www.cups.org/str.php</A></PRE><P>Reports sent to the CUPS newsgroups or mailing lists are not automatically entered into the trouble report database and will not influence the final production release of CUPS 1.2, so it is very important that you report any problems you identify using the form.</P><P>Changes in CUPS 1.2rc1:</P><UL><LI>Documentation updates (Issue #1497, Issue #1498)<LI>The scheduler now redirects browsers to https: URLs when encryption is required.<LI>The scheduler would crash when printing with a banner (Issue #1500)<LI>cups-driverd did not use the LanguageEncoding attribute in PPD files to convert the NickName to UTF-8 (Issue #1503)<LI>The lpadmin command could not set the printer-error-policy attribute (Issue #1504)<LI>The web interface did not show the time and date in the correct format for the locale (Issue #1505)<LI>CUPS no longer accepts print jobs if a printer does not support the file format (Issue #1501)<LI>Cleaned up the PostScript filter (pstops) so that it properly supports %%IncludeFeature and page scaling (Issue #1453)<LI>Fixed the cupsFileRewind() and cupsFileSeek() functions to work properly with uncompressed files.<LI>Added cupsFileGetLine(), cupsFileStderr(), cupsFileStdin(), and cupsFileStdout() functions to the CUPS library.<LI>Added a new cupstestdsc program to test the DSC conformance of PostScript files.<LI>Added KDE/GNOME icons and a Manage Printers menu item.<LI>Added --enable-image and --enable-pdftops configure options to control whether the image and PDF filters are built and installed (default = yes for all platforms but MacOS X)<LI>Fixed a minor memory leak in the PPD API.<LI>Fixed transcoding issues (Issue #1493)<LI>The scheduler now enforces a minimum job cost of 100 when doing FilterLimit checks.<LI>The scheduler would leak file descriptors when printing to raw queues (Issue #1491)<LI>The IPv6 support did not compile on Tru64 UNIX (Issue #1488)<LI>ppdOpen2() now converts the NickName and all UI text to UTF-8 (Issue #1475)<LI>The Set Allows Users web page did not work (Issue #1486)<LI>When the default policy was not set or set to a non- existing policy, the scheduler did not set the default policy name to "default" (Issue #1484)<LI>The Zebra CPCL driver did not use the correct righthand margin for the 4" wide label sizes.<LI>Fixed a problem with the parsing of fractional real numbers in PPD files.<LI>Added Spanish localization files (Issue #1480)<LI>Fixed localization of a few scheduler messages (Issue #1478)<LI>Fixed support for HEAD requests in the scheduler (Issue #1481)</UL>
