---
title: CUPS 1.4rc1
layout: post
---

CUPS 1.4rc1 is now available for download from the CUPS web site:    http://www.cups.org/software.htmlAs per the CUPS Configuration Management Plan, we now start our two week "soak" of each release candidate. Once we are happy with the quality, we'll do the first stable release, 1.4.0. If you experience problems with the release candidate, please post your issues to the cups.general forum or mailing list. Confirmed bug reports should be posted to the Bugs & Features page.CUPS 1.4 adds over 67 new features and changes to CUPS 1.3.x, including greatly improved Bonjour/DNS-SD and Kerberos support, SNMP-based page accounting and monitoring, security and logging improvements to the scheduler, integration of the CUPS driver development kit components, and IPP/2.1 support. Changes in 1.4rc1 include:- The PPD compiler documentation was missing information on localization (Issue #3212)- The IPP backend now reconnects after every request when talking to printers that claim IPP support but only use HTTP/1.0.- The PPD compiler crashed when both &quot;Resolution&quot; and &quot;Group foo Option Resolution&quot; were specified in the .drv file.- The PPD compiler's #if/#elif/#else/#endif did not work for undefined variables (Issue #3210)- Static libraries could not be installed by a non-root user on systems needing a ranlib program (Issue #3209)- The scheduler incorrectly always tried to copy Kerberos credentials for print jobs.- Updated the Spanish localization (Issue #3204)- The scheduler crashed when getting the default paper size from libpaper (Issue #3205, Issue #3206)- The PPD compiler now defines six variables: CUPS_VERSION, CUPS_VERSION_MAJOR, CUPS_VERSION_MINOR, CUPS_VERSION_PATCH, PLATFORM_NAME, and PLATFORM_ARCH (Issue #3203)- Fixed a whitespace skipping bug in cupsRasterInterpretPPD.- The scheduler did not return HTTP 403 (Forbidden) for authenticated users that were not authorized to do IPP operations (Issue #3193)- The scheduler did not report more than 8 Product strings from a PPD file.  Some PPD files have as many as 24.- ppdOpen*() could crash if a keyword had no value string (something that cupstestppd looks for...)- cupsLangDefault() did not return the correct language on Mac OS X.- The Mac OS X USB backend did not handle aborted or stalled pipe conditions properly, which prevented drivers from ejecting partial pages when a job was canceled or held.
