---
title: CUPS 1.5b1
layout: post
---

The first beta release of CUPS 1.5 is now available for download from:

    http://www.cups.org/software.html

CUPS 1.5 contains many performance and standards conformance improvements and has greatly-improved Kerberos printing support. Changes include:

- The CUPS library now supports per-connection HTTP timeouts and callbacks.
- The CUPS library now supports (limited) SSL/TLS X.509 certificate validation and revocation (Issue #1616)
- Updated the PostScript filter to support IncludeFeature in more circumstances (Issue #3417)
- The schedule did not correctly parse some IPv6 addresses and masks in the cupsd.conf file (Issue #3533)
- Fixed a case-insensitive string comparison issue for locales that do not treat "I" and "i" as equivalent (Issue #3800)
- The scheduler reported an incorrect job-printer-uri value when sharing was not enabled (Issue #3639)
- The scheduler now allows the ServerAlias directive to contain multiple hostnames separated by spaces or commas (Issue #3813)
- The scheduler now sets the process group for child processes and manages the group (Issue #2829)
- Fixed some minor issues discovered by a Coverity scan (Issue #3838)
- The scheduler now more carefully creates and removes configuration, cache, and state files (Issue #3715)
- The lpadmin command now allows default option values to be deleted (Issue #2959)
- The lpadmin command now allows the cupsIPPSupplies and cupsSNMPSupplies keywords to be set in a PPD file (Issue #3825)
- Moving a held job no longer releases it (Issue #3839)
- Restored support for GNU TLS and OpenSSL with threading enabled (Issue #3605)
- Fixed a confusing error message from cups-polld (Issue #3806)
- Increased the default RIPCache value to 128MB (Issue #3535)
- MIME errors are now routed to the error_log file (Issue #2410)
- Updated PDF filter to support new Ghostscript ps2write device (Issue #3766)
- Updated PDF filter to support new Poppler option to preserve page sizes in PDF files when the user has not selected a particular media size (Issue #3689)
- Added new PWG Raster filter for IPP Everywhere printer support.
- Added job-uuid, printer-uuid, and subscription-uuid attributes.
- Added support for the cupsSingleFile PPD keyword.
- Dropped support for the printer-state-history attribute (Issue #3654)
- Added support for a new cupsIPPSupplies keyword in PPD files to allow drivers to disable IPP supply level reporting.
- Added support for a new cupsFilter2 keyword in PPD files to allow for the propagation of the actual MIME media type produced by a filter.
- The scheduler did not always get the correct Kerberos username when authenticating (Issue #3670)
- Added new cupsRasterOpenIO function and CUPS_RASTER_WRITE_PWG to the CUPS imaging library to support printing to IPP Everywhere raster printers.
- The scheduler now provides default values for the pages-per-minute and pages-per-minute-color attributes for PPD files that lack a Throughput keyword.
- Email notifications did not work on Mac OS X.
- The cupstestppd program now shows an error for files missing a CloseGroup keyword (Issue #3668)
- Name resolution errors no longer cause queues to stop (Issue #3719, Issue #3753)
- Added a new cups-exec helper program that applies security profiles to filters, port monitors, backends, CGI programs, and mini-daemons.
- The web interface can now be disabled using the WebInterface directive in cupsd.conf (Issue #2625)
- The scheduler now provides privacy controls for jobs and subscriptions (Issue #2969)
- Added new cupsArrayNew3 API which offers memory management of array elements.
- Added several new color spaces to the CUPS raster format (Issue #3419)
- The Validate-Job operation now uses the same policy as Print-Job by default.
- CUPS now uses iconv to implement all of its character encoding support (Issue #3097)
- The scheduler now implements the Cancel-Jobs, Cancel-My-Jobs, and Close-Job operations along with the job-ids operation attribute from PWG 5100.11.
- The main CUPS header (<cups/cups.h>) no longer includes the PPD header (<cups/ppd.h>).
- The scheduler and CUPS API now support the print-quality job template attribute.
- The scheduler no longer supports the old Mac OS X Server quota plugin.
- The scheduler now allows writing to /Users/Shared from print filters on Mac OS X.
- CUPS no longer supports the old ~/.cupsrc or ~/.lpoptions files from CUPS 1.1.x.  The ~/.cups/client.conf and ~/.cups/lpoptions files that were introduced in CUPS 1.2 must now be used.
- The ipptest tool is now a first-class user program and has several improvements along with new documentation (Issue #3484)
- The cupstestppd tool now warns about non-unique filenames and provides a way to ignore all filename warnings.
- Dropped support for the recoverable: and recovered: message prefixes.
- The scheduler now requires that filters and backends have group write permissions disabled.
- The PPD compiler now checks for overlapping filenames when writing PPD files.
- The HP-GL/2 filter is no longer included with CUPS (Issue #3322)
- The SCSI backend is no longer included with CUPS (Issue #3500)

Enjoy!

