---
title: ipptool 20111003
layout: post
permalink: /blog/:year-:month-:day-:title.html
---

The October 3, 2011 release of ipptool is now available for download from:

    http://www.cups.org/software.html

The new release includes several bug fixes and improvement to the IPP conformance tests. Changes include:

- Using OF-TYPE with the "no-value" or "unknown" out-of-band value tags now works without special WITH-VALUE strings.
- ipptool now shows an error when an attribute appears more than once within the same attribute group.
- ipptool did not display attributes as specified by the DISPLAY directive when a test error failed.
- Fixed one spot where DEFINE-VALUE was still treated as an error when the EXPECT test failed.
- uriScheme values were not displayed properly.
- Updated the IPP/1.1 tests to properly validate support for job-hold-until-default and job-hold-until-supported when the Hold-Job operation is supported.
- Updated the IPP/1.1 tests to properly check for the various standard media sizes for the printing tests.
- Updated the IPP/1.1 tests to accept "no-value" for media-default an orientation-requested-default.
- Updated the IPP/1.1 tests to accept "unknown" for job-state.
- Updated the IPP/1.1 tests to not perform the bogus URI printing tests unless the "document-uri" variable is defined.
- Updated the IPP/2.0 tests to properly validate media-col "media-xxx-supported" attributes.
- Updated the IPP/2.2 tests to properly validate media-ready and media-col-ready.

Enjoy!

