---
title: CUPS 1.5.1 (Pulled)
layout: post
permalink: /blog/:year-:month-:day-:title.html
---

<B>Note, this release has been pulled since the tarball was actually for CUPS 1.6 (currently in development). An new tarball for CUPS 1.5.2 will be released later today with the correct content.</B>

CUPS 1.5.1 is now available for download from:

    http://www.cups.org/software.html

The new release fixes a number of printing, encryption, and ipptool issues. Changes include:


- Documentation updates (Issue #3885, Issue #3886, Issue #3946, Issue #3969)
- Localization updates (Issue #3840, Issue #3989, Issue #3997)
- Build fixes (Issue #3956, Issue #3999)
- The SNMP backend did not validate the device URIs reported by printers (Issue #4004)
- cupsBackendReport() did not handle newlines in 1284 Device IDs (Issue #4005)
- USB backend fixes for libusb (Issue #3965, Issue #3978)
- The DBUS notifier did not validate string parameters (Issue #3984)
- Group quota ACLs did not work with Kerberos (Issue #3972)
- The IPP backend did not retry when a printer responded with client-error-not-possible (Issue #3963)
- PostScript PPDs with filters used the wrong command filter (Issue #3973)
- The scheduler incorrectly used free() on a POSIX ACL value, which could cause a crash (Issue #3970)
- PPD files using the MacStandard encoding did not work.
- The web interface did not work on some platforms (Issue #3902)
- The lpstat command would crash when then "-u" option was used by a non-administrator (Issue #3953)
- Japanese supply level reporting did not always work.
- The DBUS notifier could crash (Issue #3947)
- Relaxed some of the page size checks in cupstestppd.
- The ipptool program now reports attributes that are repeated within the same attribute group.
- Updated the PWG raster support to match the current draft specification.
- Fixed some IPP conformance issues in the scheduler.
- Added ipptool support for repeating requests.
- Added IPP/2.2 conformance tests and greatly improved the IPP/1.1, IPP/2.0, and IPP/2.1 conformance testing.
- IPP messages containing mixed integer/rangeOfInteger values did not work (Issue #3942)
- The ipptool program now provides additional diagnostics for badly- formatted responses (Issue #3857)
- When possible, the IPP backend now stops sending job data early on a cancel.
- cupsSendRequest and cupsWriteRequestData did not properly read all HTTP headers, preventing authentication and encryption upgrades from working in all cases.
- The client.conf Server directive is no longer supported on Mac OS X 10.7 and later.
- The IPP backend sent the wrong margins in media-col.
- The scheduler did not save or restore large Kerberos credentials for jobs.
- The dnssd backend did not properly browse for secure IPP printers.
- httpAssembleURI* did not properly escape all special characters in the username/password field.
- The scheduler now logs config file errors to stderr (Issue #3936)
- The configure script incorrectly used bundle-based localizations on Linux (Issue #3938)
- The cups-driverd helper program did not cache .drv files properly, sometimes leading to a crash (Issue #3921)
- CUPS did not build on stock Mac OS X installations.
- Encryption was broken with OpenSSL.
- ipptool's XML output used date/time values with timezone offsets, which are not supported by Mac OS X's NSDate class.
- Several programs did not support the cupsFilter2 keyword in PPD files.
- The IPP backend incorrectly reported spool-area-full states.
- cupsMarkOptions() did not protect against a bad PPD that was missing one or more standard Duplex options.
- The PostScript filter did not mirror N-up output properly.
- The ipptool program did not validate UTF-8 strings in XML output.
- Fixed supply level reporting for some printers.
- The scheduler no longer automatically logs debug messages for jobs that were held or canceled.
- The cupsSendRequest function did not flush remaining response data from a previous request, leading to apparent chunking issues.
- The scheduler did not report the correct version in the Server: header (Issue #3903)
- The scheduler did not support 1284 device IDs reported by driver interface programs longer than 127 characters (Issue #3871)
- The image filters did not support loading images larger than the RIPCache setting (Issue #3901)
- "PAGE: total NNN" messages did not get logged properly (Issue #3887)
- Updated the PWG Raster support to conform to the current draft of the PWG Raster Format specification.
- The PWG Raster filter did not always write the correct number of padding lines on the bottom of the page (Issue #3904)
- When reporting a denial-of-service attack from the domain socket, the address reported does not always contain the correct path (Issue #3888)
- Badly formed GIF files could cause the image filters to crash (Issue #3914)
- Jobs canceled at the printer were retried by the IPP backend.
- "cupsfilter -u" deleted the input file instead of the PPD file.
- The scheduler did not compute the cost of PPD filters defined using the cupsFilter2 keyword properly.
- The scheduler did not correctly support the maxsize() attribute for PPD filters.

Enjoy!

