.\"
.\" "$Id$"
.\"
.\"   cups-lpd man page for the Common UNIX Printing System (CUPS).
.\"
.\"   Copyright 1997-2005 by Easy Software Products.
.\"
.\"   These coded instructions, statements, and computer programs are the
.\"   property of Easy Software Products and are protected by Federal
.\"   copyright law.  Distribution and use rights are outlined in the file
.\"   "LICENSE.txt" which should have been included with this file.  If this
.\"   file is missing or damaged please contact Easy Software Products
.\"   at:
.\"
.\"       Attn: CUPS Licensing Information
.\"       Easy Software Products
.\"       44141 Airport View Drive, Suite 204
.\"       Hollywood, Maryland 20636 USA
.\"
.\"       Voice: (301) 373-9600
.\"       EMail: cups-info@cups.org
.\"         WWW: http://www.cups.org
.\"
.TH cups-lpd 8 "Common UNIX Printing System" "11 August 2004" "Easy Software Products"
.SH NAME
cups-lpd \- receive print jobs and report printer status to lpd clients
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cups-lpd
[ -o
.I option=value
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcups-lpd\fR is the CUPS Line Printer Daemon ("LPD") mini-server that
supports legacy client systems that use the LPD protocol.
\fBcups-lpd\fR does not act as a standalone network daemon but instead
operates using the Internet "super-server" \fBinetd(8)\fR. Add the
following line to the \fBinetd.conf\fR file to enable the
\fBcups-lpd\fR daemon:
.br
.nf

    printer stream tcp nowait lp /path/to/cups/daemon/cups-lpd cups-lpd -o document-format=application/octet-stream
.fi
.LP
If you are using the newer \fIxinetd(8)\fR daemon, add the following
lines to the \fBxinetd.conf\fR file:
.br
.nf

    service printer
    {
        socket_type = stream
        protocol = tcp
        wait = no
        user = lp
	group = sys
	passenv =
        server = /path/to/cups/daemon/cups-lpd
	server_args = -o document-format=application/octet-stream
    }
.fi
.LP
The /path/to/cups/daemon is usually /usr/lib/cups/daemon or
/usr/libexec/cups/daemon, depending on the operating system.
Consult the cupsd.conf file for the local setting.
.SH OPTIONS
The \fI-o\fR option to \fBcups-lpd\fR inserts options for all print queues.
Most often this is used to disable the "l" filter so that remote print jobs
are filtered as needed for printing:
.br
.nf

    printer stream tcp nowait lp /usr/lib/cups/daemon/cups-lpd cups-lpd \
        -o document-format=application/octet-stream

    server = /usr/lib/cups/daemon/cups-lpd
    server_args = -o document-format=application/octet-stream
.fi
.LP
The example shown resets the document format to be
\fIapplication/octet-stream\fR, which forces auto-detection of the print
file type.
.SH PERFORMANCE
\fBcups-lpd\fR performs well with small numbers of clients and
printers. However, since a new process is created for each
connection and since each process must query the printing system
before each job submission, it does not scale to larger
configurations. We highly recommend that large configurations
use the native IPP support provided by CUPS instead.
.SH SECURITY
\fBcups-lpd\fR currently does not perform any access control
based on the settings in \fIcupsd.conf(5)\fR or in the
\fIhosts.allow(5)\fR or \fIhosts.deny\fR files used by TCP
wrappers. Therefore, running \fBcups-lpd\fR on your server will
allow any computer on your network (and perhaps the entire
Internet) to print to your server.
.LP
While \fIxinetd\fR has built-in access control support, you
should use the TCP wrappers package with \fIinetd\fR to limit
access to only those computers that should be able to print
through your server.
.LP
\fBcups-lpd\fR is not enabled by the standard CUPS distribution.
Please consult with your operating system vendor to determine
whether it is enabled in their distributions.
.SH COMPATIBILITY
\fBcups-lpd\fR does not enforce the restricted source port
number specified in RFC 1179, as using restricted ports does not
prevent users from submitting print jobs. While this behavior is
different than standard Berkeley LPD implementations, it should
not affect normal client operations.
.LP
The output of the status requests follows RFC 2569, Mapping
between LPD and IPP Protocols. Since many LPD implementations
stray from this definition, remote status reporting to LPD
clients may be unreliable.
.SH SEE ALSO
cupsd(8), inetd(8), xinetd(8),
CUPS Software Administrators Manual,
http://localhost:631/documentation.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1993-2005 by Easy Software Products, All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.\" End of "$Id$".
.\"
